Agnico Eagle Mines Limited - Sustainability - Addressing Climate Change About Agnico Our Strategy Board of Directors Management Governance Committee Composition Awards and Recognition History Key Facts Company Directory 60th Anniversary Anniversary Videos 60 on 60 Videos Interactive Timeline Operations Operations Canadian Malartic Detour Lake Fosterville Goldex Kittila La India LaRonde Complex Macassa Meadowbank Complex Meliadine Pinos Altos Strategy Production Summary and Forecast Mineral Reserves & Mineral Resources Photo Gallery Exploration Exploration Sites Strategy Mineral Reserves & Mineral Resources Exploration Projects Barsele Kirkland Lake Regional El Barqueño Hammond Reef Hope Bay Santa Gertrudis Timmins East Properties Other Projects Europe United States Latin America Australia Investor Relations Why Invest? News & Events News Releases Events & Webcasts Presentations Stock Information Dividends Analyst Coverage Merger of Equals with Kirkland Lake Gold Financial Information SEC Filings Quarterly Summary Investor Centre Interactive Analyst Centre Investor Resources Frequently Asked Questions Glossary Downloads Email Alerts RSS Feeds Contact Us Sustainability Message from our Leadership Our COVID-19 Response Our Approach and Commitments Our Performance Governance Addressing Climate Change UN SDGS Sustainability Report Archive Stories and Videos GRI and SASB Index and Data Tables ESTMA Reports Careers About Agnico Eagle Our Values Employee Profiles Sustainability Why a career with us? Student Recruitment Achievements Current Opportunities Media Centre News Releases Events and Webcasts Videos Flickr Photos Achievements Email Alerts RSS Feeds Logos Procurement Supplier Code of Conduct Regional Sites Canadian Malartic Partnership Nunavut Finland Akasaba West Abitibi Upper Beaver Fosterville The Eagle Blog Contact Us About Agnico Our Strategy Board of Directors Management Governance Committee Composition Awards and Recognition History Key Facts Company Directory 60th Anniversary Anniversary Videos 60 on 60 Videos Interactive Timeline Operations Operations Canadian Malartic Detour Lake Fosterville Goldex Kittila La India LaRonde Complex Macassa Meadowbank Complex Meliadine Pinos Altos Strategy Production Summary and Forecast Mineral Reserves & Mineral Resources Photo Gallery Exploration Exploration Sites Strategy Mineral Reserves & Mineral Resources Exploration Projects Barsele Kirkland Lake Regional El Barqueño Hammond Reef Hope Bay Santa Gertrudis Timmins East Properties Other Projects Europe United States Latin America Australia Investor Relations Why Invest? News & Events News Releases Events & Webcasts Presentations Stock Information Dividends Analyst Coverage Merger of Equals with Kirkland Lake Gold Financial Information SEC Filings Quarterly Summary Investor Centre Interactive Analyst Centre Investor Resources Frequently Asked Questions Glossary Downloads Email Alerts RSS Feeds Contact Us Sustainability Message from our Leadership Our COVID-19 Response Our Approach and Commitments Our Performance Governance Addressing Climate Change UN SDGS Sustainability Report Archive Stories and Videos GRI and SASB Index and Data Tables ESTMA Reports Careers About Agnico Eagle Our Values Employee Profiles Sustainability Why a career with us? Student Recruitment Achievements Current Opportunities Media Centre News Releases Events and Webcasts Videos Flickr Photos Achievements Email Alerts RSS Feeds Logos Procurement Supplier Code of Conduct Regional Sites Canadian Malartic Partnership Nunavut Finland Akasaba West Abitibi Upper Beaver Fosterville The Eagle Blog Contact Us Français Follow us on facebook. Follow us on linkedin. Follow
                us on twitter. Learn more about the RSS Feeds. Learn more about our 60th
            anniversary. Français Skip to main content Addressing Climate Change Taking Climate Action We understand the importance of managing climate-related risks to build a better business, capitalize on future opportunities and communicate to our stakeholders effectively. About Agnico Our Strategy Board of Directors Management Governance Committee Composition Awards and Recognition History Key Facts Company Directory 60th Anniversary Anniversary Videos 60 on 60 Videos Interactive Timeline Operations Operations Canadian Malartic Detour Lake Fosterville Goldex Kittila La India LaRonde Complex Macassa Meadowbank Complex Meliadine Pinos Altos Strategy Production Summary and Forecast Mineral Reserves & Mineral Resources Photo Gallery Exploration Exploration Sites Strategy Mineral Reserves & Mineral Resources Exploration Projects Barsele Kirkland Lake Regional El Barqueño Hammond Reef Hope Bay Santa Gertrudis Timmins East Properties Other Projects Europe United States Latin America Australia Investor Relations Why Invest? News & Events News Releases Events & Webcasts Presentations Stock Information Dividends Analyst Coverage Merger of Equals with Kirkland Lake Gold Financial Information SEC Filings Quarterly Summary Investor Centre Interactive Analyst Centre Investor Resources Frequently Asked Questions Glossary Downloads Email Alerts RSS Feeds Contact Us Sustainability Message from our Leadership Our COVID-19 Response Our Approach and Commitments Our Performance Governance Addressing Climate Change UN SDGS Sustainability Report Archive Stories and Videos GRI and SASB Index and Data Tables ESTMA Reports Careers About Agnico Eagle Our Values Employee Profiles Sustainability Why a career with us? Student Recruitment Achievements Current Opportunities Media Centre News Releases Events and Webcasts Videos Flickr Photos Achievements Email Alerts RSS Feeds Logos Procurement Supplier Code of Conduct Regional Sites Canadian Malartic Partnership Nunavut Finland Akasaba West Abitibi Upper Beaver Fosterville The Eagle Blog Contact Us Home > Sustainability > Addressing Climate Change Our Approach Agnico Eagle recognizes climate change as a serious environmental concern for all of society. As a sustainability leader in the global mining industry, we aim to be a climate action leader too. We do this by executing a disciplined strategy that is focused on proactively working to reduce emissions as quickly as feasible, preparing the company for a low-carbon economy, and regularly and transparently communicating our climate-related progress and performance, and the risks and opportunities we can reasonably foresee. Agnico Eagle is committed to continue to take the action necessary to adapt and mitigate the impacts of climate change. Agnico Eagle's Climate Strategy Our climate strategy is integrated with our business strategy and revolves around three strategic pillars: performance; pipeline; and people. PERFORMANCE: Take action to improve our performance and reduce our overall Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions. Our initiatives are designed to enhance our energy efficiency, advance our technology transition, and accelerate our shift to renewables — with a focus on electrification, innovation and the pursuit of alliances to advocate for the greening of electrical grids. PIPELINE: Align project planning and business processes around our interim and long-term GHG emission reduction targets. Maintain our reputation for being a transparent operator active in politically stable jurisdictions and engage with governments and our peers to spur on funding for renewable energy initiatives and technology transition. As we build or add new projects to our pipeline, we will include forecast carbon costs into our economic evaluations. We will also incorporate the impacts of physical and transition climate risks, as well as adaptation and resiliency measures, into our project planning, operations and closures. PEOPLE: Reaching net-zero and achieving success requires the support of our people and governments that represent them.  We will leverage the skills and experience of our employees to optimize energy use, deploy clean energy solutions at our mine sites, and shift to renewable energy sources. We will use our relationships and partnerships with governments, peers and communities to better support transition initiatives and advocate for clean power and strategic ideas that have benefits beyond our organization. We will continue to explore technology and solutions to improve our carbon performance and accounting, so we remain a leader in low-carbon production and best practices even as we continue to grow. Our strategy focuses on what we are good at, finding technical and innovative solutions to complex problems and we will put the human and financial capital in place to align our actions with our commitments. Download year list Thumb Download Description (opens in new window) 2022 Climate Action Report (opens in new window) 7.14 MB Download year list Thumb Download Description (opens in new window) Message from our Leadership (opens in new window) FAQ | Site Map | Terms of Use Privacy Policy Feedback © Agnico Eagle Mines Limited. All Rights Reserved Read more about the World Gold
                    Council. Read more about the Task
                    Force on Climate Related Financial Discolures Read more about the
                    Corporate Knights. Read more about the Most Sustainable Corporations in the World for 2021. Read more about TSM. Read more about MAC. Read more about the
                    PDAC Convention Read more about the 2020 CDP Disclosure Read more about UN-SDG. Read more about the world gold forum 2020. Read more about FTSE for Good. Powered By Q4 Inc. 5.90.0.6 (opens in new window) Designed By Craib Design & Communications