Air Canada - Our Environmental Efforts Loading... Skip to homepage Skip to book a flight Skip to main navigation Skip to main navigation Skip to content Skip to search field Skip to search field Skip to footer links Skip to site map Skip to contact Search site Find Search site Find Expand search box Book Opens in a New Window Investor Relations Corporate Responsibility Careers My profile My profile {{cui.getUserFullName()| lowercase}} Air Canada Aeroplan My bookings My profile Sign out Sign in My bookings My profile Join Aeroplan Join Aeroplan Accessibility Accessibility Search site Find Search site Find Expand search box Hamburger Navigation Sign in or create an Aeroplan account Book Opens in a New Window Investor Relations Corporate Responsibility Careers Hamburger Navigation Sign in or create an Aeroplan account Home Corporate Responsibility Status of Air Canada flights by route or by flight number. Information on scheduled and estimated departure and arrival times, delays and cancellations. Environment Sponsorships and Community Investments Captain Judy Cameron Scholarship Environment What we're doing… At Air Canada, we make great efforts to integrate environmental considerations into our business decisions and minimize our environmental footprint. Our approach is two-fold: Leave Less through our operations — less carbon in our atmosphere, less waste in our land and water, and less noise in our communities. And Do More to address environmental issues — more collaboration and participation with our industry partners, more involvement in our communities and with employees and customers to have an even greater impact in our efforts. Find out more about how we’re working to reduce our environmental impact at work and in our communities. What you can do to help… Air Canada has partnered with CHOOOSE to provide its customers with verified carbon offsets to compensate the
    estimated greenhouse gas emissions associated with their flight. The voluntary program gives customers the opportunity to support certified third-party projects that reduce, capture,
    or avoid GHG emissions around the world. The option to purchase verified carbon offsets is now seamlessly integrated
    into the airline’s Canadian and U.S. booking websites. To learn more, please visit the CHOOOSE website .* * By clicking this link, you will enter CHOOOSE’s website. CHOOOSE’s terms and policies, including privacy and
        data gathering practices, will apply. Air Canada Cargo E-freight is an industry-wide initiative that involves carriers, freight forwarders, ground handlers, shippers, customs brokers and customs authorities to replace paper documents used in all types of transport with electronic messages. E-Freight was launched in November 2007 in six countries, Canada being one of them. Once fully adopted by the industry as a whole, the program will have measurable results: E-freight will eliminate, on average, more than 7,800 tonnes of paper documents every year – enough to fill 80 Boeing 747 freighters. Use e-freight at stations that are e-freight friendly Opens in New Window . Related Topics Sponsorship Sponsorships and Community Investments Corporate Sustainability Reports Additional Information Find out how we’re working to Leave Less We have detected a device type and/or operating system version that may result in slow performance on this site. If you are experiencing problems, please try our mobile app Opens in a new window . About Corporate Profile Corporate Governance Media Centre Our Fleet Opens in a New Window Safety Investor Relations Suppliers Corporate Responsibility Air Canada Foundation Opens in a New Window In the Community Commercial Sponsorship Leave Less Opens in a New Window Corporate Sustainability Reports Modern Slavery Act Statement Opens in a New Window Captain Judy Cameron Scholarship Facebook Opens in a New Window Twitter Opens in a New Window YouTube Opens in a New Window RSS Feeds Opens in a New Window OFFICIAL LANGUAGES CAREERS BOOK A FLIGHT Opens in a New Window Voted Best Airline in North America Best Airline Staff in Canada and North America General Conditions of Carriage & Tariffs Opens in a New Window Privacy Policy Opens in a New Window Term of use Opens in a New Window Facebook Opens in a New Window Twitter Opens in a New Window YouTube Opens in a New Window RSS Feeds Opens in a New Window © 2022 Air Canada Indicates an external site which may not meet accessibility guidelines.