Climate Change Commitment | Scotiabank Canada Skip to content Cookies on the Scotiabank website We use cookies & other technologies to analyze website traffic, personalize content & provide relevant advertising on other websites. You can manage your preferences here . Select “Accept” to continue to the website. Learn about our privacy policy Accept and Continue Personal Small Business Commercial Global Markets Global Wealth About Us Investors More sites English Select a language English selected Français Menu Our Company Our Company Corporate Profile Board of Directors Executive Management Diversity and Inclusion Governance Scotiabank Archives The Scotiabank Women Initiative Investor Relations Investor Relations Financial Results Annual Report & AGM Stock Information Equity Investors Fixed Income Investors Events and Presentations Frequently Asked Questions Economics Economics Economics Publications Forecast Snapshot Our Economists Responsibility & Impact Responsibility & Impact ESG Strategy In Our Operations With Our Customers On the World Around Us ESG Publications & Policies Sponsorships Content in Spanish News News Perspectives Press Releases Social Channels Media Contacts Speeches and Presentations Customer Care Begin your search submit search Close search Open search Get alerts More links Quarterly Results Economic Publications Press Releases Get alerts More links Quarterly Results Economic Publications Press Releases Begin your search submit search Our Company Back to
                                    previous Our Company Corporate Profile Board of Directors Executive Management Diversity and Inclusion Governance Scotiabank Archives The Scotiabank Women Initiative Investor Relations Back to
                                    previous Investor Relations Financial Results Annual Report & AGM Stock Information Equity Investors Fixed Income Investors Events and Presentations Frequently Asked Questions Economics Back to
                                    previous Economics Economics Publications Forecast Snapshot Our Economists Responsibility & Impact Back to
                                    previous Responsibility & Impact ESG Strategy In Our Operations With Our Customers On the World Around Us ESG Publications & Policies Sponsorships Content in Spanish News Back to
                                    previous News Perspectives Press Releases Social Channels Media Contacts Speeches and Presentations Customer Care Personal Small Business Commercial Global Markets Global Wealth About Us Investors More sites Select a language English Français Climate Commitments Addressing Climate Change We recognize that climate change is one of the most pressing issues of our time. It is significantly impacting natural systems and communities across the globe and poses a significant risk to the global economy and society as a whole – now, and for future generations. Efforts to address climate change will require significant mobilization of climate-related finance from public and private sources worldwide. As an international financial institution, we have both the responsibility and opportunity to act, while also enabling others for every future . We are here to support our clients in navigating the transition to a low-carbon economy. We take responsibility in ensuring we are lowering our environmental footprint in our operations and ensure we are well governed. We understand that assessing and appropriately managing environmental and climate risks is critical to our clients, our long-term operations and our collective business success. Opens the 2022 ESG Report in a new tab Read the Net-Zero targets update in the 2022 ESG Report Becoming a Net-Zero Bank In support of the Government of Canada’s net-zero commitments, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, and as a signatory to the Net-Zero Banking Alliance (NZBA), Scotiabank made a commitment to become a net-zero bank in our financed and operational emissions. We outline our first financed emissions targets in our inaugural Net-Zero Pathways Report . So what does ‘net-zero’ mean? Net-zero emissions are achieved when man-made emissions of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere are balanced by man-made removals over a specified period. 1 Achieving net-zero emissions means emitting no greenhouse gas emissions or offsetting emissions through actions such as tree planting or employing technologies that can capture carbon before it is released into the air. 2 Our Commitments We believe we have a key role to play in the transition to a net-zero future and that is why we have made the following climate commitments: Select a step to read Mobilize $350 billion in climate-related finance by 2030 Ensure robust climate-related governance and transparency in our reporting Enhance integration of climate risk assessments in our lending, financing and investing activities Decarbonize our own operations and find innovative solutions to reduce the Bank’s impact on the changing climate Maintain our Climate Change Centre of Excellence Mobilize $350 billion in climate-related finance by 2030 Efforts to address climate change will require significant mobilization of climate-related finance from public and private sources worldwide. Building on our Climate Commitments and as part of our net-zero strategy, we are mobilizing $350 billion in climate-related finance by 2030. This commitment includes lending, investing, financing and advisory services, as well as expenditures in the Bank’s direct operations and communities where it operates to reduce the impacts of climate change. As a member of the Net-Zero Banking Alliance , Scotiabank is committed to being a net-zero bank by 2050. This includes achieving net-zero emissions from our operations and net-zero financed emissions by 2050. To this end, we have committed to setting credible, robust targets for financed emissions associated with our lending and investment activities, in line with achieving the objectives of the Paris Climate Agreement.  Furthermore, we are collaborating with and supporting our current and prospective clients in the public and private sector, as they decarbonize their supply chains, operations, and economies. Our progress to date Please see the net-zero update in the 2022 ESG Report . Ensure robust climate-related governance and transparency in our reporting Senior management and the Board of Directors provide oversight of the Bank’s Climate Commitments, and we continue to evolve our climate-related disclosures. We are committed to transparency on climate-related risks and will continue to align climate related disclosures with the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). We disclose climate-related information in our Annual Report, ESG Report and annual CDP submission. Our progress to date Signatory to the United Nations-convened Net-Zero Banking Alliance (NZBA) to accelerate efforts of the financial sector globally to address climate change. TCFD disclosures in the 2022 Annual Report and 2022 ESG Report . Sustainable Bonds Report CDP score for fiscal 2021: B Continue to enhance our reporting in alignment with TCFD recommendations and the Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF) guidelines. Enhance integration of climate risk assessments in our lending, financing and investing activities Our risk management policies consider the physical and transition risks associated with climate change, which clarifies our Bank-wide policies about where we direct financing and includes integrating climate risk into investment activities through portfolio management. Our risk-based approaches consider how we can integrate climate risk assessments across all business lines and activities Our progress to date In 2022, the ESG Risk team responded to more than 1,400 internal requests for technical advice and counsel supporting environmental risk due diligence and mitigation processes for business credits. Participated in the United Nations Environment Programme’s Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) TCFD and Climate Risk program, enhancing our ability to evaluate climate-related transition and physical risks in our lending portfolio. Performed scenario analysis using three Network for Greening the Financial System (NGFS) climate scenarios characterized by varying levels of physical and transition risk. Decarbonize our own operations and find innovative solutions to reduce the Bank’s impact on the changing climate We work to decarbonize our operations through energy efficiency and innovation. We assess potential physical impacts to our operations and build resilience to protect our assets, business activities and communities where we operate. We are also committed to using our purchasing power to address climate change by working to incorporate climate change considerations into our procurement process. Our progress to date Achieved 29% reduction of our Scope 1 and 2 emissions (against our 2016 baseline), progressing towards our target of 35% reduction by 2030. Secured 67% of our electricity from non-emitting 3 sources in 2022, trending towards our target of securing 100% on a global basis by 2030, and 83%, towards our Canadian target of 100% by 2025. Internal carbon price of $60/tonne of CO 2 (FY 2022) Maintain our Climate Change Centre of Excellence To mobilize internal and external collaboration, dialogue and information sharing and contribute to the global conversation on climate change, we are building upon and expanding Scotiabank’s Climate Change Centre of Excellence to support Partnerships & Collaborations, Information & Knowledge and Resources & Publications. Our progress to date Visit the Climate Change Centre of Excellence hub here . Granted $2 million to 21 organizations exploring decarbonization and climate-related systems change since the launch of our $10 million Net-Zero Research Fund in 2021. Collaborated with sector and non-governmental organizations that include, but are not limited to, UNEP FI, PCAF, Institute of International Finance’s (IIF) Sustainable Finance Working Group and Canadian Business for Social Responsibility (CBSR) Net-Zero Working Group. Impact Stories How banks and institutional investment funds are driving the road to net-zero Fanncy Doucet, Head of Sustainable Finance, shares her insights on meeting climate targets, achieving investment returns and satisfying stakeholder needs. Article on how banks and institutional investment funds are driving the road to net-zero Families compete to lower household carbon emissions in Live Net Zero Challenge Scotiabank invests $450,000 in the Royal Canadian Geographical Society project aimed at helping Canadian lower their carbon footprint. Article on families compete to lower household carbon emissions in Live Net Zero Challenge How Jarislowsky Fraser made the Top 3 in the Great Canadian ESG Championship Integrating sustainable development principles from the ground is key to success, CEO says. Article on how Jarislowsky Fraser made the Top 3 in the Great Canadian ESG Championship Download our ESG Report Learn how Scotiabank is working to build a more sustainable future for our stakeholders and our business. Download our ESG report Download Report 1 https://www.ipcc.ch/sr15/chapter/glossary 2 Net-Zero Emissions by 2050 - Canada.ca 3 Either physically or virtually. Non-emitting sources includes renewable (hydro, solar, wind, geothermal, tidal), nuclear sources and may include the use of renewable energy certificates (RECs). Stay informed Sign up for updates on the ways we are using our size, scale and influence to advance progress in the places we operate. Sign up for regular updates from us Sign Up Call Scotiabank 1.800.4SCOTIA More Phone Numbers Get advice Meet with an advisor. Book an appointment Careers Legal Privacy Security Accessibility AdChoices © Scotiabank. All Rights Reserved.