Climate change - BMO Harris Skip to content Skip Navigation Mobile Navigation Menu Button Corporate Responsibility Our Approach Awards & Recognition Our Practices Reports Select Region/Language Canada English Français US English class="icon chevron-down"> Canada English US Canada English Français US English Contact Us Our Approach Awards & Recognition Our Practices Reports Blog Top Home > Our practices > Climate change Climate change BMO is focused on being our clients’ lead partner in the transition to a net-zero world . We’re taking comprehensive steps across our financing activities and operations to drive solutions to achieve net-zero and our Purpose-driven commitment to a sustainable future. BMO announces plan to partner with Breakthrough Energy Catalyst to accelerate climate innovation Read the blog BMO first bank to pre-purchase Direct Air Capture carbon removals using Carbon Engineering technology Read the blog BMO Call to Action at Sustainable Innovation Forum Learn more Sustainable Innovation Forum Learn more BMO releases first Impact Fund Disclosure applying IFC led Operating Principles for Impact Management Read the blog BMO to chair global Cross-Sector Biodiversity Initiative Read the blog Earth Day 2021 – BMO turns trades into trees Read the blog BMO kicks off Earth Month by celebrating our membership in the Priceless Planet Coalition Read the blog BMO declares climate ambition Read the blog BMO works with Atlantic Packaging towards a sustainable future Read the blog BMO announces bold renewable energy goal Read the blog BMO among first Canadian banks to sign UN Principles for Responsible Banking Read the blog The road to net zero Learn more Partnership for a Net Zero World Learn more Learn more about BMO’s net zero ambition with new videos Read the blog 2022 Climate Report Learn more BMO’s commitment to climate action BMO’s Net-Zero Ambition is our strategy to address climate-related risks and opportunities, consider climate-related issues when reviewing strategic choices and measure and report our progress against goals and targets. It’s anchored by our Purpose-driven Bold Commitment to be our client’s lead partner in the transition to a net-zero world , and comprises four pillars: Commitment, Capabilities, Client Partnership and Convening for Climate Action. Introducing the BMO Climate Institute Established in 2021, the BMO Climate Institute is a centre of excellence that bridges climate policy and science with business strategy and finance to unlock solutions for both clients and the bank. Led by a multidisciplinary team with climate-related expertise, the Institute leads BMO’s efforts to convene stakeholders and drive thought leadership to advance the low-carbon transition and enhance resilience. Learn more about the BMO Climate Institute at: https://our-impact.bmo.com/us/our-practices/climate-change/bmo-climate-institute/ Mobilizing Sustainable Finance We are partnering with our clients to help them adapt to climate change impacts and contribute to the transition to a net-zero global economy. Sustainable finance is an important tool we can use to drive the transition to a lower carbon economy. BMO has committed to mobilizing C$300 billion (239 billion USD)* in capital to clients pursuing sustainable outcomes through green, social and sustainable lending, underwriting, advisory services, and investment by 2025. Since 2019, we have mobilized $176 billion, including $71 billion in support of green objectives such as clean transportation, low-carbon energy, green buildings, waste management, and sustainable agriculture. *Converted to US Dollars at a rate of 1.30 In 2021, BMO Capital Markets created the Energy Transition Group. The group helps clients achieve decarbonization strategies by evaluating energy technologies and pairing core products and services with specialty products, such as the BMO Impact Fund and themed loans to advance financing for opportunities that are not yet bankable on their own. Learn more . Taking Definitive Action Mapping a clear path to net zero, BMO’s approach is guided by our commitment to and participation in many market-leading initiatives including the Net-Zero Banking Alliance, the Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials, the Principles for Responsible Banking, the Net Zero Asset Managers initiative and others. We are taking the following steps: In 2021, we set a new target to reduce operational greenhouse gas emissions by 30% by 2030 versus a 2019 baseline using science-based approaches, building on BMO’s Carbon Neutral operations (since 2010) and matching 100% of global electricity use with renewable energy purchases (since 2020). In 2020 and 2021, we saw emissions reduction that reached the 2030 target, largely attributable to COVID-19 related remote working conditions. Return to office could increase emissions relative to 2020 and 2021 in future years but we will continue to target a 30% reduction by 2030 from the 2019 baseline. BMO joined the Net-Zero Banking Alliance , and we are committed to setting financed emissions reduction targets that we will seek to achieve by working with our clients. Targeting net zero financed emissions in our lending by 2050, we have begun to quantify the GHG emissions associated with our lending activity in accordance with the PCAF Standard and have set  intermediate targets for financed emissions reduction. Our initial report on progress can be found in our 2021 Climate Report and we will report annually. Committing to the UN Principles for Responsible Banking (PRB), and to align our business strategy with the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), the Paris Climate Agreement and relevant national and regional frameworks. In February 2021, BMO became one of the first major Canadian banks to sign the PRB . BMO GAM was a founding signatory of Net Zero Asset Managers Alliance and as a member of Climate Engagement Canada, is committed to leading engagement with Canadian corporations to promote a just transition to a net-zero economy. BMO GAM will set an interim target toward a goal of 100% net zero assets under management by 2050. Working with partners to develop and share good practices related to biodiversity and ecosystem services in the extractive industries, as a member of the Equator Principles Steering Committee and the Cross-Sector Biodiversity Initiative. BMO Climate Institute The BMO Climate Institute is a virtual hub that brings together science, analytics and expertise to unlock solutions to climate change and drive climate adaptation innovations. Learn more Operational sustainability Carbon neutral since 2010, BMO is dedicated to finding innovative ways to minimize the environmental impacts of our operations. Learn more 2022 Sustainability Report and Public Accountability Statement BMO’s latest Sustainability report outlines key environmental, social and governance areas of interest to our stakeholders and discloses our performance in these areas. Learn more (PDF) Contact Us Phone Locations Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Follow BMO Harris Careers Security Privacy Legal Sitemap Accessibility About our ads About Us NMLS 401052 Banking products and services are provided by BMO Harris Bank N.A. and are subject to bank and credit approval. BMO Harris ® is a trade name used by
                        BMO Harris Bank N.A. and its affiliates. BMO Harris Bank ® is a trade name used by BMO Harris Bank N.A. Member FDIC . Notice to Customers To help the government fight the funding of terrorism and money laundering activities, federal law (USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107 56 signed into law October 26,
                        2001)) requires all financial organizations to obtain, verify and record information that identifies each person who opens an account. When you open an account, we will ask for
                        your name, address, date of birth and other information that will allow us to identify you. We may also ask you to provide a copy of your driver's license or other identifying
                        documents. For each business or entity that opens an account, we will ask for your name, address and other information that will allow us to identify the entity. We may also
                        ask you to provide a copy of your certificate of incorporation (or similar document) or other identifying documents. The information you provide in this form may be used to
                        perform a credit check and verify your identity by using internal sources and third party vendors. If the requested information is not provided within 30 calendar days, the
                        account will be subject to closure. Third party web sites may have privacy and security policies different from BMO Harris. Links to other web
                        sites do not imply the endorsement or approval of such web sites. Please review the privacy and security policies of web sites reached through links from BMO Harris web sites. BMO Harris Premier Services represents a combined service approach of BMO Harris Financial Advisors and BMO Harris Bank, each a part of BMO Financial Group. Securities, investment advisory services and insurance products are offered through BMO Harris Financial Advisors, Inc. Member FINRA / SIPC . SEC -registered investment adviser. BMO Harris
                        Financial Advisors, Inc. and BMO Harris Bank N.A. are affiliated companies. Securities and insurance products offered are: NOT FDIC INSURED – NOT BANK GUARANTEED – NOT A DEPOSIT – MAY LOSE VALUE. This information is not intended to be tax or legal advice. This information cannot be used by any taxpayer for the purpose of avoiding tax penalties that may be imposed on the
                        taxpayer. This information is being used to support the promotion or marketing of the planning strategies discussed herein. BMO Harris Bank N.A. and its affiliates do not
                        provide legal or tax advice to clients. You should review your particular circumstances with your independent legal and tax advisors.