Climate & GHG Emissions – Canadian Natural Resources Skip to content CNQ Financial Reports Sustainability Reporting Working Together About Us About Us Who We Are Our History Our Strategy Management Directors Governance Code of Conduct & Human Rights World Class Assets World Class Assets Natural Gas, Light Crude Oil & NGLs Natural Gas Light Crude Oil & NGLs Heavy Crude Oil Primary Heavy Crude Oil Pelican Lake Crude Oil Oil Sands Thermal In Situ Oil Sands Mining & Upgrading Marketing & Midstream Investors Investors Investor Relations Events & Presentations News Releases Financial Reports Dividends Stock Information Credit Ratings SEDAR & EDGAR Filings Sustainability Sustainability Sustainability Reporting Climate Governance and Risk Management Sustainability Governance and Stewardship Climate & GHG Emissions GHG Emissions Reduction Program Protecting Air Quality Environment Environmental Planning and Monitoring Land Water Workplace & Process Safety Safety Management System Emergency Management Process Safety Management Pipeline Integrity Technology Research Collaboration Technology Portal Technology Opportunities Communities Indigenous Relations Community Investments Payments to Governments Careers Careers Careers with Canadian Natural Student Opportunities FAQ Tips From Our Campus Team Scholarships Climate & GHG Emissions Resources developed safely and responsibly on our journey to net zero emissions Canada’s natural resources are safely and responsibly developed with world-leading standards, under comprehensive regulatory oversight and emissions regulations. Canada’s significant long life, no decline oil sands mining resources with manufacturing-like operations represent one of the clearest routes to net zero emissions of any global crude oil asset, making them valuable for sustainable long-term energy security and global greenhouse gas (GHG) reductions. Canadian Natural continues to work together with industry, government and stakeholders to encourage technological innovation, energy efficiency and targeted R&D as methods of maintaining a competitive oil and natural gas sector. Canadian Natural supports Canada’s leadership in the Paris Agreement to hold the increase of global average temperature to below 2°C and pursue efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5°C by reducing emissions and driving innovation. We also support the federal and provincial governments’ commitments to reduce methane emissions. 13% reduction in corporate direct GHG emissions intensity from 2017-2021 Our Approach Canadian Natural is working with the entire Canadian crude oil and natural gas sector to deliver game-changing environmental performance. We have a defined pathway to achieve long-term emissions reductions with an integrated GHG emissions management strategy that includes ongoing investments in technology and innovation. Canadian Natural, along with Canada’s other largest oil sands producers, has established an unprecedented collaborative organization called the Pathways Alliance. Explore how Canadian Natural is working to continuously improve environmental performance and reduce GHGs across our operations Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions Leveraging technology and Canadian ingenuity to lower GHGs across operations. Monitoring and Minimizing Air Emissions We plan, design, build and operate all production facilities to achieve high standards of air quality. Canadian Natural is a senior oil and natural gas production company, with continuing operations in its core areas located in western Canada, the U.K. portion of the North Sea and Offshore Africa. Head Office 2100, 855 - 2 Street S.W. Calgary, AB T2P 4J8 Tel: (403) 517-6700 Disclaimer Legal Privacy News Alert Contact Us © 2023 Canadian Natural. All Rights Reserved.