Canadian Utilities | About Us | Our Commitment For Home Overview Electricity Natural Gas Home Energy Plans Electricity Safety Hydrogen For Business Overview Electricity Natural Gas, Energy Storage, & Industrial Water Business Energy Plans Electricity Safety Natural Gas Services About Us Overview Mission & Values Corporate Structure Global Operations Our Commitment Governance Overview Board Of Directors Executive Committee Board Mandate Position Descriptions Code of Ethics Disclosure Statement Board Committees Integrity & Compliance News Careers Contact Us Corporate Governance Join Us Investors Overview Documents & Filings Events & Presentations Why Invest Preferred Shares Analyst Coverage Dividends & Stock Splits Dividend Reinvestment Plan CU Inc. Overview Preferred Shares Documents & Filings Credit Ratings Registrar & Transfer Agent Investor FAQ Contact Us Documents & Filings Events & Presentations More Location Australia Chile French Canada English Mexico Spanish Mexico About Us Our Committment About Us We are made up of an incredibly diverse array of businesses that touch the lives of millions around the world. We have always taken our responsibilities very seriously, whether it is to the communities we have the privilege to serve, our employees’ safety, or the global environment within which we operate. Our responsibility is to conduct our business in a manner that reflects our values: integrity, agility, collaboration, and caring. 2021 Sustainability Report 2021 Canadian Utilities Limited ESG Datasheet ESG Targets News Release Energy Transition We enable the transition to cleaner fuels and electricity , without sacrificing the safety, reliability or affordability of energy, by developing a suite of solutions from which our customers can choose. Solutions are driven by innovative technologies that will be integrated into a modern energy infrastructure. Climate Change & Environmental Stewardship We minimize our environmental impacts and reduce emissions to do our part in tackling climate change. Critical to this approach is our focus on exploring new and more efficient ways to generate, transport and conserve energy. Operational Reliability & Resilience We prepare for the future, so that even in times of crisis, our system continues to provide the essential services our customers need. We are committed to providing reliable energy , working around the clock to minimize service outages and ensuring our assets are resilient for decades to come. People The health and safety of people is the first consideration in everything we do. And, while we protect the people in our workforce and communities, we know we must also reflect the people in our communities by promoting diversity, equity and inclusion . Community & Indigenous Relations Building respectful and mutually beneficial relationships with communities, with Indigenous Peoples and with businesses has long defined how we do business. Together with our Indigenous and community partners, we are continually exploring new ways to collaborate. Learn more about our investment in communities , our Indigenous partnerships , or apply for support . Investors News Careers ATCOenergy 1-844-687-2826 Monday-Friday: 8 a.m. - 8 p.m. Saturday: 8 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. Natural Gas Emergency 1-800-511-3447 Electricity Emergency 1-800-668-5506 ATCO Guest Services : 403-292-7500 ATCO Park : 5302 Forand Street S.W. Calgary, Alberta, T3E 8B4 Contact Us Emergency Contacts Investors Privacy Terms of Use COPYRIGHT 2023 ATCO Ltd. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Customers are free to purchase natural gas services or electricity services from a retailer of their choice. For a list of retailers, visit ucahelps.alberta.ca or call 310-4822 (toll-free in Alberta).