Canadian Tire Corporation, Limited - Environmental, Social and Governance - Environment Skip to main content Français High Contrast Search About Us Our Leadership Team Board of Directors Consumer Brands Division Supplier Opportunities Triangle Our Banners Canadian Tire Retail SportChek Mark's Canadian Tire Financial Services Helly Hansen Gas + Atmosphere Sports Experts Pro Hockey Life Trio Hockey PartSource CT REIT Party City Careers Corporate Careers Tech Careers Retail Careers Campus Careers Dealer and Gas+ Retailer Opportunities CTR Dealer Careers Gas+ Retailer Opportunities Distribution Centre Careers Call Centre Careers Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging Environmental, Social and Governance Our Approach ESG Reporting People & Community People & Community Overview Community Impact Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging Talent & Culture Environment Environment Overview Climate Change Circularity: Operational Waste Circularity: Packaging & Product Waste Responsible Sourcing Responsible Sourcing Overview Sustainable Supply Chain Management Human Rights & Social Responsibility Product Safety & Quality Governance Governance Overview Business Ethics Corporate Governance & Risk Management Privacy & Data Security Investors Financial Reporting Quarterly Results Annual Disclosures Financial News Events & Presentations Events Presentations Shareholders Stock Information Dividend Information Analyst Coverage Debtholders Credit Ratings Short-Term Debt Long-Term Debt Capital Management Glacier Credit Card Trust Corporate Governance Our Approach to Corporate Governance Board of Directors Mandates and Position Descriptions Constating Documents and Policies Investor Resources FAQs Code of Conduct Email Alerts Request Printed Materials Videos Contact IR Media News Releases Media Highlights Product Recalls Media Inquiries COVID-19 Environment Overview As an iconic Canadian retailer, we can lead change, not only by reducing greenhouse gas emissions within our business, but also by leveraging our knowledge, innovations and relationships to empower our partners and customers to reduce their environmental impact. We also know that breaking the link between consumption and waste is imperative to future-proof our business in a resource-constrained world. At CTC, we believe that tackling plastics, waste and our products’ circularity is both a responsibility and an opportunity. Learn more about our approach to the environment: Download our 2021 Climate Data Supplement here Unless otherwise indicated, information in this ESG Report is provided for the 2021 fiscal year. For further information on our approach to ESG reporting, including our Glossary, which sets out definitions of capitalized terms and acronyms that are not otherwise defined in this page, and our forward-looking information disclaimer, please click here . About our current ESG report Scope Our 2021 ESG Report is focused on the activities and outcomes of CTC and all entities controlled by it during the 2021 fiscal year (January 1 to December 31, 2021), and unless otherwise indicated, information in this ESG Report
          should be read to apply to that time period. In light of the publication timing, this report also includes some updates that occurred in 2022, primarily as a result of significant work completed in 2021. Where relevant and
          appropriate, we also included stories and achievements from Canadian Tire Jumpstart Charities and our Dealers, franchisees and agents, all of whom we have close working relationships with, despite operating independently. Unless otherwise indicated, all references to employees across our ESG reporting include full-time and part-time employees of CTC, and do not include employees of CT REIT, Dealers, SportChek franchisees, Mark's franchisees and
          Canadian Tire Petroleum agents. Assurance We received external third-party assurance with respect to our 2021 Climate Data Supplement claims and assertions, and certain waste metrics, which are explained further in this limited assurance statement . We did not seek or receive external assurance from third parties with
          respect to other information. Forward-looking Information Certain statements made in our ESG Report, including those related to our ESG targets and strategies, may constitute forward-looking information under applicable securities laws. Such statements include, but are not limited to, the
          Corporation’s 2030 GHG emissions reduction target and 2022 operational waste diversion target. The Company is not required under securities laws to prepare or file this ESG Report, and the information contained herein should
          therefore not be read as necessarily rising to the same level of materiality of disclosure required in our securities law filings. These statements are being provided for the purposes of assisting readers in understanding our
          approach to key ESG topics, strategies and initiatives, and in obtaining a better understanding of our anticipated operating environment. Readers are cautioned that such information may not be appropriate for other purposes. Although CTC believes that the forward-looking information in this ESG Report is based on information, assumptions and beliefs that are current, reasonable and complete, this information is necessarily subject to a number of
          factors, risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially from management's expectations and plans as set forth in such forward-looking information. For more information on the risks, uncertainties and
          assumptions that could cause CTC’s actual results to differ from current expectations, refer to section 10.0 (Key Risks and Risk Management) of the Company's 2021 Management’s Discussion and Analysis as well as CTC’s other public
          filings, available at www.sedar.com and at https://investors.canadiantire.ca . Unless otherwise indicated, the forward-looking information contained in this ESG Report describes our current expectations and, accordingly, is subject to change after the initial publication of this ESG Report on September 15,
          2022. CTC does not undertake to update any forward-looking information, whether written or oral, that may be made from time to time by the Company, or on its behalf, to reflect new information, future events or otherwise, except as
          is required by applicable securities laws. Glossary Term Definition Board Refers to the CTC Board of Directors. Canadian Tire Refers to the general merchandise retail and services business carried on under the Canadian Tire name and trademarks. Canadian Tire Financial Services Refers to the business carried on by the Company’s financial services subsidiaries, namely Canadian Tire Bank. Canadian Tire Petroleum Refers to the retail petroleum business carried on under the Canadian Tire and Gas+ names and trademarks. CT REIT Refers to the business carried on by CT Real Estate Investment Trust and its subsidiaries. CTC or the Company Refers to Canadian Tire Corporation, Limited, its predecessor corporations and all entities controlled by it and their collective businesses, unless the context otherwise requires. Dealers Refers to independent third-party operators of Canadian Tire and Party City stores across the country. DIB Refers to diversity, inclusion and belonging. ERGs Refers to employee resource groups. ESG Refers to “environmental, social and governance”, and encompasses the range of issues a company manages that are related to sustainable development, including environmental protection, social responsibility, and good governance. Helly Hansen Refers to the international wholesale and retail businesses that operate under the Helly Hansen and Musto brands. Jumpstart Refers to Canadian Tire Jumpstart Charities. Mark's Refers to the retail and wholesale businesses carried on by Mark’s Work Wearhouse Ltd. under the Mark’s and L’Équipeur names and trademarks. Party City Refers to the party supply business that operates under the Party City name and trademarks. PartSource Refers to stores operated under the PartSource name and trademark. SportChek Refers to the retail business carried on by FGL Sports Ltd., including stores operated under the SportChek, Sports Experts, Atmosphere, National Sports, Sports Rousseau and Hockey Experts names and trademarks. Note on trade names, trademarks and service marks This ESG Report contains trade names, trademarks, and service marks of CTC and other organizations, all of which are the property of their respective owners. Solely for convenience, the trade names, trademarks, and service marks
          referred to herein appear without the ® or TM symbol. Corporate Home Office 2180 Yonge Street Toronto, ON M4P 2V8 416-480-3000 Customer Relations 1-800-387-8803 (English) 1-800-565-3356 (French) linked in twitter About Us Our Leadership Team Board of Directors Consumer Brands Division Supplier Opportunities Triangle Our Banners Canadian Tire Retail SportChek Mark's Canadian Tire Financial Services Helly Hansen Gas + Atmosphere Sports Experts Pro Hockey Life Trio Hockey PartSource CT REIT Party City Careers Corporate Careers Tech Careers Retail Careers Campus Careers Dealer and Gas+ Retailer Opportunities Distribution Centre Careers Call Centre Careers Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging Environmental, Social and Governance Our Approach ESG Reporting People & Community Environment Responsible Sourcing Governance Investors Financial Reporting Financial News Events & Presentations Shareholders Debtholders Corporate Governance Investor Resources Media News Releases Media Highlights Product Recalls Media Inquiries COVID-19 Copyright © Canadian Tire Corporation, Limited 1997 – Website Terms & Conditions Privacy, Security & Accessibility Site Map Powered By Q4 Inc. 5.90.0.6 (opens in new window)