Our ESG story - Canadian Apartment Properties REIT Canadian rental housing providers for affordable housing: ForAffordable.ca More info Close Canadian Apartment Properties REIT Rent or Lease An apartment A land lease community Commercial About Us Who we are For Investors Canada (EN) Canada (English) Canada (Français) Netherlands (English) Resident Login Toggle Menu Find Learn about An apartment A land lease community Contact us An apartment A land lease community Contact us Learn about Why rent with us The leasing process Frequently asked questions Living at Canadian Apartment Properties REIT Resident Portal COVID-19 precautions Why rent with us The leasing process Frequently asked questions Living at Canadian Apartment Properties REIT Resident Portal COVID-19 precautions Featured Protect Yourself from Scams & Fraud Things to watch out for, how to protect yourself & what to do if you’ve been scammed. Frequently asked questions If you have a question, you will find the answers here. Check out our Blog For the latest news, events, contests, articles and helpful hints & more. Find Learn about An apartment A land lease community Contact us An apartment A land lease community Contact us Learn about Why rent with us The leasing process Frequently asked questions Living at Canadian Apartment Properties REIT Resident Portal COVID-19 precautions Why rent with us The leasing process Frequently asked questions Living at Canadian Apartment Properties REIT Resident Portal COVID-19 precautions Featured Protect Yourself from Scams & Fraud Things to watch out for, how to protect yourself & what to do if you’ve been scammed. Frequently asked questions If you have a question, you will find the answers here. Check out our Blog For the latest news, events, contests, articles and helpful hints & more. About Canadian Apartment Properties REIT Who we are Executive team CAPREIT News Our ESG story Our Blog Who we are Executive team CAPREIT News Our ESG story Our Blog Join our team Our hiring process View open positions Career paths Employee development programs Join our team Our hiring process View open positions Career paths Employee development programs Featured Celebrating 25 Years In 25 years CAPREIT has evolved to be become an incredible success story ForAffordable.ca Ideas to address the housing supply and affordability crisis in Canada CAPREIT and Pathways to Education Building a better future together for Canadian Youth About Canadian Apartment Properties REIT Who we are Executive team CAPREIT News Our ESG story Our Blog Who we are Executive team CAPREIT News Our ESG story Our Blog Join our team Our hiring process View open positions Career paths Employee development programs Join our team Our hiring process View open positions Career paths Employee development programs Featured Celebrating 25 Years In 25 years CAPREIT has evolved to be become an incredible success story ForAffordable.ca Ideas to address the housing supply and affordability crisis in Canada CAPREIT and Pathways to Education Building a better future together for Canadian Youth Our ESG story Our Environment, Social & Governance story For us, our sense of responsibility goes beyond ensuring we maintain high-quality, desirable properties. Care encompasses everything we do, including how we treat our residents, the clean, safe homes we provide, the suppliers we engage, and the communities in which we operate. It includes how we treat our people, from the most recent hire to how we inspire and grow our dedicated team and our senior leaders. For us, care goes higher still—all the way up to ensuring our investments generate positive returns. At the same time, our caring extends to effecting meaningful contributions to society and safeguarding the environment. Changes we’re making By integrating environmental, social and governance (ESG) related metrics into the way we manage our business, and our properties, we ensure we answer our mantra to connect and care about the world around us. We look for ways to reduce our environmental footprint. We want to add value to the lives of the residents we serve and communities we operate in. Strengthening corporate governance helps us attract and retain the best employees and residents. And it leads to better investment outcomes. ENVIRONMENTAL Operational Efficiency and Resilience SOCIAL Staying Connected GOVERNANCE Governance, Risk and Compliance Change leads to growth We’ve updated our growth strategy to focus on diversifying our portfolio through new development opportunities. We’ll continue to modernize our assets and invest in environmental and social initiatives that drive operational excellence. At the same time, we adhere to sound governance. This sets us up for controlled growth in the future. We’ve already taken the first step in Elevation 2023, our five-year growth plan. It outlines ways we’re increasing our business resilience and lays the foundation for updating the way we operate. The genuine care we have for our team keeps us committed to investing in our employees. That concern motivates us to be the best place to work. Above all, we seek to drive strong returns for our Unitholders. Measuring up to these promises will fulfill our commitment to all our stakeholders to deliver best-in-class performance. Areas of focus Integrating ESG We’re currently identifying and prioritizing our most pressing ESG issues. We’ve already demonstrated a commitment to environmental transparency by disclosing findings through our customer data platform in 2020. The result was a Green Star designation from the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark, in our inaugural 2020 GRESB submission. A culture of inclusion Caring about our employees and our residents means fostering a culture of equality, diversity and inclusion. That’s why we work to ensure these fundamental qualities are at the heart of every program we offer employees and residents. Operational efficiency and resilience We’re building operational effectiveness and resilience through increased conservation measures. These reduce risk and result in greater efficiencies. Governance Our Policy Management Program helps manage risk. It maintains a culture of compliance and ensures that we always remain a trusted, ethical partner to our stakeholders. That’s the result of a business that cares. Read the full report (PDF) 2021 ESG Highlights ENVIRONMENTAL Over $20 Million invested in energy efficiency initiatives across our portfolio* Solidified our environmental commitments with an 11% energy consumption reduction and a 10% reduction in GHG emissions since 2010 Enhanced internal systems to improve GRESB reporting Completed a regional Climate Risk Assessmen t to identify potential physical and transitional climate-related risks/opportunities in our major markets SOCIAL Ranked in the Top Quartile of the Best Employers Program for the 8th consecutive year An inclusive and diverse workforce where 56 % self-identify as female and 37 % identify as Black, indigenous, and people of colour (“BIPOC”) Via our Resident Experience survey, residents awarded CAPREIT an overall score of almost 80 % relating to resident happiness and their likelihood to recommend to peers Our Employee Engagement survey revealed a satisfaction score of 89 % relating to CAPREIT’s approach to diversity and inclusion GOVERNANCE 50 % of independent trustees self-identify as female 33 % of Trustees and 45.5 % of senior executive managers† self-identify as BIPOC Established a formal Compliance & Ethics program enhancing governance practices Developed a new and refined ESG Strategy aligned with Elevation 2023, our core business growth strategy *Residential Energy-Saving Initiatives: $19.4 million, MHC Energy-Saving Initiatives: $59,000, Commercial Energy-Saving Initiatives: $796,000. †Vice Presidents and above. News News CAPREIT recognized for gender parity across the organization. March 3, 2023 Equileap’s latest report shows that only 28 companies globally have closed the gender pay gap, and just 18 have achieved gender balance at all levels. … Read More News CAPREIT 2022 Annual Report February 24, 2023 Celebrating 25 Years “In 2022, we were proud to celebrate 25 years of growth and performance. Since 1997, our asset base has expanded to approximately … Read More News Canada’s next great economic boom can be unleashed by the power of housing, immigration, and labour January 24, 2023 Op-ed published in The Hill Times. Expanded immigration can work hand-in-hand with the construction industry’s goals to open the way to uild the 3.5 million additional homes we need above the current pace of construction. Read More News CAPREIT Applauds Premier Eby’s Rental Protection Fund January 19, 2023 A cost-effective tool for affordable long-term rental housing for vulnerable communities Ottawa, Canada, January 19, 2023 (Globe Newswire) – Canadian Apartment Properties Real Estate Investment … Read More News Canadian rental housing providers for affordable housing November 15, 2022 Five Major Residential Rental REITs launch ForAffordable.ca A window into how Canada’s five largest publicly traded residential rental REITs operate and their ideas to address … Read More News BNN Bloomberg Interview with Mark Kenney  – Incredible problems with lack of supply November 14, 2022 CAPREIT’s Chief Executive Officer Mark Kenney, joined BNN Bloomberg to discuss CAPREITs Q3 results, the lack of housing supply and current state of the rental … Read More Contact us We welcome any comments and questions you might have. Feel free to contact us anytime by phone or email. 11 Church Street, Toronto, ON M5E 1W1 (416) 861-9404 rentals@capreit.net Rent or Lease Find an apartment Find a land lease community The leasing process Living at CAPREIT About Us Who we are Join our team View open positions CAPREIT News Our Blog Contact Us International & Commercial Commercial Netherlands properties Canadian Apartment Properties REIT Connect with Us © 2023      Canadian Apartment Properties REIT. All Rights Reserved. Accessibility Privacy Policy Terms of Use Cookies Policy