CGI commits to net-zero carbon emissions by 2030  | CGI.com Skip to main content You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form. Services Our partner ecosystem Explore CGI's partner ecosystem to find solutions to today's challenges End-to-end services Business consulting Systems integration Managed IT services Application services Infrastructure services Business process services Key Topics Digital transformation Advanced analytics Intelligent automation Cloud & IT modernization Cybersecurity Sustainability Solutions CACS X for collections CGI Advantage CGI Trade360 CGI OpenGrid360 CGI All Payments CGI Retail Suite Industries CGI Voice of Our Clients Annually,
                      CGI
                      leaders
                      around
                      the
                      world
                      meet
                      with
                      business
                      and
                    ... Banking & capital markets Communications & media Energy & utilities Oil & gas Utilities Government Health Insurance Life sciences Manufacturing Retail, consumer & services Space Transportation & logistics Insights Digital value chain Optimize
                      your
                      digital
                      value
                      chain
                      to
                      accelerate
                      business
                      outcomes.
                      
                    ... CGI Voice of Our Clients Capital markets Corporate & transaction banking Retail banking Energy & utilities Central & federal government Defense & intelligence State, provincial & local government Health Industry insights cont'd Life & pensions insurance Property & casualty insurance Life sciences Manufacturing Consumer & business services Retail, consumer goods & wholesale Space Transport & logistics Reinvent Attributes of digital leaders Benchmark your organization Explore 2022 insights Impacts of macro trends Meet our experts Careers Women in tech: Better the balance, better the world CGI
                      UK
                      President
                      Tara
                      McGeehan
                      explains
                      how
                      women
                      have
                      shaped
                    ... Mergers Partner ecosystem Contact Global EN FR Article CGI commits to net-zero carbon emissions by 2030 2 min read CGI is pleased to announce its commitment to achieving net zero carbon emissions by 2030 with respect to carbon emissions under its direct and indirect control (as defined by Scope 1, 2 and business travel in scope 3 of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol). The 2030 target date is 20 years earlier than the target date set by the United Nation’s Paris Agreement on Climate Change. It is also anticipated that certain geographies within our company will reach the net-zero target prior to 2030. This important initiative is part of a broad range of sustainable activities CGI is investing in to reinforce the company’s ambitious corporate social responsibility strategy. Overall, CGI’s strategic goal is to achieve recognition as a caring and responsible corporate citizen from the local communities in which its professionals live and work in close proximity with CGI clients. “As historic changes continue to reshape how we live and work, we remain committed to being a socially and environmentally responsible company,” said CGI’s President and Chief Executive Officer George Schindler. “This net-zero carbon emissions target is in line with our longstanding environment stewardship efforts across the globe. This involves collaborating with clients, partners, governments, the United Nations and others at the global, regional and local levels to drive sustainability and adopt operating practices that reduce and ultimately eliminate our carbon footprint. We are especially proud of the engagement of our teams at the local level as they work, side by side with our clients, to create a more sustainable world.” For 45 years, CGI has worked with clients to identify, monitor and manage environmental health and safety risks, reduce energy consumption, and conserve natural resources. CGI also is a global IT leader in implementing sustainable operating practices that align with the UN Global Compact and ISO 14001. “Through our environmentally-oriented operating practices, we have reduced our carbon emissions by 50% since 2014,” added George Schindler. “We also help our clients reduce their CO2 emissions and achieve their sustainability goals through our innovative energy solutions.” CGI’s commitment to accelerating the sustainability of its business has enabled it to improve its performance continuously with respect to key environmental indices, including the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, the Carbon Disclosure Project, and EcoVadis. Share this more Related media Press release CGI partners with NetApp to help clients accelerate data-intensive digital transformation in the cloud Article Innovating green energy to meet climate goals Press release CGI Federal announces extension of 10-year partnership with U.S. State Department in support of Consular Affairs services in India White paper Ready to invest in DERMS? See more How can we help? Contact Insights you can act on Founded in 1976, CGI is among the largest IT and business consulting services firms in the world.  We are insights-driven and outcomes-based to help accelerate returns on your investments. Learn more about CGI © 2023 CGI Inc. You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form. Discover more about CGI Email Keeping you informed Learn more about CGI’s work through our industry insights, news and ESG initiatives. Find an office You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form. Visit all office locations Company About us Case studies ESG Partner ecosystem Investors Newsroom Media center Support Accessibility Cookie management Privacy Terms of use Careers FAQ Follow us LinkedIn Twitter Youtube Facebook