Our Climate Commitment| Emera Skip to main content News Careers Contact Us Your Dashboard Logout News Careers Contact Us Your Dashboard Logout Menu Close Search About Us Who We Are Board & Governance Emera Leadership Code of Conduct Our Approach Safety Environment Innovation Our Climate Commitment Contact Us Sustainability Companies Regulated Companies Tampa Electric Nova Scotia Power Peoples Gas New Mexico Gas Co. Emera Newfoundland & Labrador Emera New Brunswick Emera Caribbean Unregulated Investments Emera Energy Emera Technologies Investors Financials Financial Reports Sedar Filings ​ As-Reported Financials ​ Shareholder Info Stock Quote​ Historic Prices Dividend Payment History Dividend Reinvestment Plan Preferred Shares Analysts​ Credit Ratings Financial Calculators  ​ Contact Information Request Email Notification News Events and Presentations​ 2022 Annual Meeting of Shareholders Community Community Stories Apply for Support Scholarships Close Search Our Climate Commitment About Us Our Climate Commitment Decarbonization has been central to our strategy for nearly two decades. Across Emera, we've reduced CO 2 emissions by 39% and our use of coal in generation (GWh) by 65% compared to 2005 levels (as of Dec. 31, 2021). To keep building on this progress, we established our Climate Commitment— a set of clear carbon reduction goals  and our vision to achieve net-zero by 2050. Our Climate Commitment *Achieving our climate goals on these timelines is subject to our regulatory obligations and other external factors beyond our control. Our Progress For nearly two decades, we’ve been making long-term investments to increase our sources of cleaner and renewable energy, while reducing our use of coal in generation. 
We continue to invest in significant clean energy projects and in the capacity, reliability and resilience of our systems as we work toward our Climate Commitment goals and our vision to achieve net-zero emissions by 2050. HOW WE'LL GET THERE We're proud of the progress we've made, but we know there is much more to be done to achieve our climate goals. We’ll continue making progress by adopting existing and emerging technologies and working constructively with policymakers, regulators, partners, investors and our communities, while staying focused on enhancing reliability and seeking to minimize cost impacts for customers. Investing $5.3B+ in cleaner and reliable energy (2023 - 2025) Coal Reduction Renewables & Low-Carbon Energy Transmission Customer Solutions Batteries Smart Grids Microgrids EVs Emerging Technologies For additional information on our transition to a clean energy future, view our Climate Transition Plan that's included in our latest sustainability report . Open Menu Back To Top Address Mailing Address 1223 Lower Water Street Halifax, Nova Scotia B3J 3S8 Civic Address 5151 Terminal Road Halifax, Nova Scotia B3J 1A1 Contact Us Phone: 902-450-0507 Toll free Phone: 1-888-450-0507 Email: info@emera.com Information For Investors Media Future Team Members © 2023 Emera Inc. All rights reserved. Legal Privacy Statement Site Map