Enbridge’s sustainability goals - Enbridge Inc. Skip to content Skip to footer Emergency Contacts Informational Postings Vendors/Suppliers Contact Us Toronto Main Menu Button Menu About Investors Projects Sustainability News Careers Home About Us Our values Enbridge’s sustainability goals Twitter Logo The logo for Twitter in a light grey color Facebook Logo The logo for Facebook in a light grey color LinkedIn Logo The logo for LinkedIn in a light grey color Envelope A rectangular envelope in a light grey color Add To Favorites My Favorite Return to this page later Save time by adding this page to your list of favorites. On your next visit, you'll find a shortcut to this page in the main menu This page has been added to your list of favorites. Click to remove it from your list. Enbridge’s sustainability goals Twitter Logo The logo for Twitter in a light grey color Facebook Logo The logo for Facebook in a light grey color LinkedIn Logo The logo for LinkedIn in a light grey color Envelope A rectangular envelope in a light grey color Add To Favorites My Favorite Return to this page later Save time by adding this page to your list of favorites. On your next visit, you'll find a shortcut to this page in the main menu This page has been added to your list of favorites. Click to remove it from your list. Sustainability is integral to our ability to safely and reliably deliver the energy people need and want. How well we perform as a steward of our environment, a safe operator of essential energy infrastructure, a good neighbor and a diverse employer is inextricably linked to our business success and our ability to create long-term value for all stakeholders. Our environmental, social and governance (ESG) goals represent the next stage of our evolution as an ESG leader to ensure we’re positioned to grow sustainably for decades to come. Enbridge’s ESG goals include: Net zero greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 2050; with an interim target to reduce GHG emissions intensity 35% by 2030 Increased representation* of diverse groups within our workforce by 2025 including a goal of 28% from underrepresented ethnic and racial groups, along with new initiatives to enhance supplier diversity Strengthening diversity on our Board with a goal of 40% representation of women and 20% of Racial and Ethnic groups by 2025 Annual safety and reliability targets that drive continuous improvement towards our goal of zero incidents, injuries and occupational injuries, and implementation of robust cyber defense programs Long ago, we began integrating ESG principles into our strategy and decision-making, and today ESG is core to our long-term value and resilience. To drive results and accountability, Enbridge has expanded links to incentive compensation to performance on emissions reduction and diversity, complementing safety metrics already embedded. Learn more about our sustainability goals in the areas of emissions, safety, diversity and inclusion, and cybersecurity. * With regard to diversity, the word “targets” and any percentage targets listed are aspirational goals which we intend to achieve in a manner compliant with state, local, provincial and federal law, including but not limited to U.S. federal regulations and Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC), Department of Labor (DOL) ad Office of Federal Contract Programs (OFCCP) guidance. Our ESG Goals Environmental As a leader in North American energy infrastructure, we have an important role to play in providing access to low-carbon energy. That role involves contributing to greenhouse gas emission reductions goals and seeking new and improved ways to deliver energy safely, responsibly and sustainably. Learn More Social We’re focused on creating a diverse and inclusive workplace and on building lasting and productive relationships with communities. Learn More Governance We’ve committed to strong and sustainable corporate governance, which promotes the long-term interests of our shareholders, strengthens the accountability of our Board and management and builds stakeholder and public trust. Learn More Our sustainability newsroom Visit Enbridge's sustainability newsroom for specifics on our ESG goals, our annual Sustainability Report, and stories that chronicle our commitment to help meet North America's growing energy needs in economically, environmentally and socially responsible ways. Learn More Add To Favorites My Favorite Return to this page later Save time by adding this page to your list of favorites. On your next visit, you'll find a shortcut to this page in the main menu This page has been added to your list of favorites. Click to remove it from your list. Back to top Operations Liquids Pipelines Gas Transmission and Midstream Gas Utilities Renewable Energy Our Leadership Our Values Our Commitment to Safety Our Public Awareness Program Corporate Governance Careers Contact Us Emergency Contacts Safe Digging Visit Enbridge Gas © 2023 Enbridge Inc. All Rights Reserved Informational Postings Contact Us Privacy Statement Terms of Use Toronto Detected Location: Toronto Change location