Environment TEXT SIZE S M L CONTACT US HOW CAN WE HELP YOU? Fortis History Fortis in the community Financial highlights Investing in Fortis Investor briefcase Stock price history About Us Profile Purpose and Values Leadership Team Board of Directors Organizational Chart History Articles and By-Laws Our Companies ITC UNS Energy Central Hudson FortisBC FortisAlberta Newfoundland Power Maritime Electric FortisOntario Caribbean Utilities FortisTCI Investor Relations Events and Presentations Financial and Regulatory Reports Annual Reports Quarterly Reports Annual Information Forms Management Information Circulars Prospectuses Financial Highlights Business Acquisition Reports SEDAR Filings EDGAR FILINGS Share Information Dividends Dividend History Preference Shares Share Plan Corporate Governance Board Bios Mandates Policies SEDI Filings Advocacy FAQ Analysts Sustainability Environment Community People Corporate Governance Advocacy Sustainability News Sustainability Reporting Newsroom News Releases 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Media Room Menu About Us Profile Purpose and Values Leadership Team Board of Directors Organizational Chart History Articles and By-Laws Our Companies ITC UNS Energy Central Hudson FortisBC FortisAlberta Newfoundland Power Maritime Electric FortisOntario Caribbean Utilities FortisTCI Investor Relations Events and Presentations Financial and Regulatory Reports Annual Reports Quarterly Reports Annual Information Forms Management Information Circulars Prospectuses Financial Highlights Business Acquisition Reports SEDAR Filings EDGAR FILINGS Share Information Dividends Dividend History Preference Shares Share Plan Corporate Governance Board Bios Mandates Policies SEDI Filings Advocacy FAQ Analysts Sustainability Environment Community People Corporate Governance Advocacy Sustainability News Sustainability Reporting Newsroom News Releases 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Media Room Fortis has a clear path to achieve a mid-term target of reducing GHG emissions 75% by 2035 compared to 2019 levels, and a 2050 net-zero direct GHG emissions target to decarbonize over the long-term. Learn more ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT IN ACTION BY FORTIS AND ITS UTILITIES ITC Educates on “Right Tree, Right Place” As spring approaches, ITC is diligent about good stewardship. ITC works with residents to help them understand what kinds of plants and shrubs can be safely established near transmission lines, and the right places for trees. Under our “Right Tree, Right Place” program, we hold site selection education events in communities to complement property owner management and help prevent tree interference with transmission lines. Learn more UNS Energy’s Resource Diversification UNS Energy’s long-term portfolio diversification strategy includes significant reductions in coal-fired generation capacity and increased use of renewable energy and efficient natural gas resources. UNS is in the midst of a transition that will reduce coal-fired resources leading to a reduction in carbon dioxide emissions. Learn more FortisBC Growing the Supply of Renewable Natural Gas FortisBC works with local farms, landfills and municipalities to produce Renewable Natural Gas (RNG), with a total of 20 supply agreements in place, including a partnership with Metro Vancouver to open a facility on Lulu Island in Richmond, BC. Increasing the RNG supply is one of the ways FortisBC is working towards their 30BY30 target to reduce their customers’ GHG emissions 30 per cent by 2030. Learn more Central Hudson’s Smart Grid Initiative Central Hudson is currently moving forward with its smart grid initiative, which will increase energy efficiency and reduce losses. The program began in 2015 and is expected to be completed by 2022. This initiative incorporates several large, interrelated projects including: the continued deployment of smart distribution devices coupled with distribution circuit upgrades; the installation of a tiered two-way communications network; and the installation of a centralized control center and platform. Learn more Bird's Eye View FortisAlberta has Osprey webcams in Canmore and Red Deer County to provide their customers with views of the magnificent birds and their nesting habits. The insights gained by observing the Ospreys help them to make the most of their Avian Protection Plan. Learn more Newfoundland Power’s EnviroFest EnviroFest is Newfoundland Power’s annual celebration of the environment that encourages positive environmental action across Newfoundland. Its team of environmental coordinators work with employees, schools and environmental organizations to identify opportunities for promoting environmental awareness. In operation since 1997, the employee-driven program has partnered with more than 300 community groups and have completed 110 projects. Learn more Maritime Electric Uses Wind Energy Prince Edward Island has one of the highest levels of wind integration in North America with the Island’s eight wind farms providing a combined generating capacity of 203 MW.  Since 2001, Maritime Electric has had long-term renewable purchase power agreements in place to buy all the energy supplied by the wind farms of the Province of Prince Edward Island. Wind energy currently accounts for approximately 25% of Maritime Electric’s energy supply mix. Learn more FortisOntario Partners with First Nations FortisOntario and 24 First Nation communities are the general partners of Wataynikaneyap Power. Wataynikaneyap Power will develop and operate new transmission facilities to connect remote First Nation communities in northwestern Ontario.  These communities are currently powered by diesel generation, which has become financially unsustainable, environmentally risky and is unable to meet the needs of communities. Learn more Street Lights near Beaches CUC installs ‘warmer’ LED bulbs and special guards on street lights that are close to designated Green Sea Turtle nests near several beaches on Grand Cayman. Green Sea Turtle hatchlings are attracted to bright light, specifically the moon light that reflects off the ocean, which is why they head to the sea once they exit their nests. In certain instances, the normal brighter ‘cool white’ street lights confuse the hatchlings and they head away from the ocean. Learn more FortisTCI’s Utility-Scale Solar Project FortisTCI is ‘Transforming Energy in the Turks and Caicos Islands’ through customer partnerships by installing grid-tied and roof- mounted solar PV. To date, the company has installed 1MW of Utility Owned Renewable Energy (UORE), accounting for the production of 1GWh of renewable energy and the reduction of 1,091 tons of CO2 emissions. Learn more Fortis Sustainability Commitment Fortis is a responsible energy partner for our communities and customers and we are committed to doing our part to make progress on the most pressing global sustainability issues. As a leader in the North American utility industry, we focus on conducting business in a responsible manner and protecting the environment for future generations. To measure our progress, we regularly set and review sustainability focused objectives, targets and programs with a commitment to continuous improvement. We have identified the following areas of focus to preserve our environment, combat climate change, and deliver value for customers, employees and stakeholders while maintaining strong governance practices across our group of companies. Preserving Our Environment and Combatting Climate Change Foster a cleaner energy future through investment in infrastructure to ensure resiliency and seek cost-efficient opportunities to decrease GHG emissions and increase our customers’ access to renewable energy sources. Improve environmental performance by regularly monitoring our operational practices and protocols, taking corrective action where necessary and auditing management systems and protocols. Recognize the importance of water and waste management and seek to reduce waste and use of water in operations. Strive to minimize the biodiversity impacts associated with our projects and operations. Comply with all applicable laws, regulations and standards of environmental protection. Linking Human Capital and Sustainability Foster a strong culture of safety, inclusion and ethical behaviour. Safety is our priority and we strive to continuously outperform the utility industry. Focus on the overall engagement and development of our employees. Raise employee and contractor awareness about the importance of sustainability. This includes Code of Conduct training addressing the importance of environmental responsibility, social consciousness and the support of communities, inclusion and diversity, and adherence to ethical standards. Respect and positively influence human rights through our actions and initiatives Engaging with Stakeholders and Communities Engaging on sustainability priorities with stakeholders including investors, customers and community representatives. Invest purposefully in infrastructure to provide a safe, reliable and affordable service and pursue strategies to improve customer engagement. Execute a robust cybersecurity strategy that mitigates risks and safeguards systems and networks. Collaborate with industry associations, government, investors and other stakeholders to advance sustainability priorities in the energy utility industry. Support and participate in community-based projects with a priority on sustainability, inclusion and diversity. Ensuring Good Governance Our Board of Directors: Act in the best interests of our stakeholders, ensure effective leadership and provide oversight in key business areas. Ensure our directors have the appropriate skills, expertise and experience to carry out their responsibilities effectively. Maintain a board where at least one-third of the independent directors are female, and consider all aspects of diversity when assessing board composition and renewal. Conduct itself in accordance with the highest standards of ethics and avoid conflicts of interest. Routinely review our governance framework against evolving best practices to ensure continued high governance standards. SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING AT FORTIS Learn more Committed to preserving our provincial heritage Fortis contributes $3.25 million to commemorate Newfoundland and Labrador’s First World War Battle of Beaumont-Hamel. Fortis community initiatives Get to know the leadership team at Fortis Meet the members of our executive team and our Board of Directors. Learn more Financial & Regulatory Reports View our recent and historical financial and regulatory reports. Read More Interested in learning more about Fortis? Email News Alerts Financial Reports Mailing List Request Information SHARE PRINT THIS PAGE About Us Profile Purpose and Values Leadership Team Board of Directors Organizational Chart History Articles and By-Laws Our Companies ITC UNS Energy Central Hudson FortisBC FortisAlberta Newfoundland Power Maritime Electric FortisOntario Caribbean Utilities FortisTCI Investor Relations Events and Presentations Financial and Regulatory Reports Share Information Corporate Governance FAQ Sustainability Environment Community People Corporate Governance Sustainability News Sustainability Reporting Newsroom News Releases Media Room CONTACT Mailing Address PO Box 8837 St. John’s, NL A1B 3T2 Street Address Fortis Place, Suite 1100, 5 Springdale Street St. John’s, NL A1E 0E4 T: 709.737.2800 F: 709.737.5307 Investor Relations T: 709.737.2900 Copyright 2023 Fortis Inc. All rights reserved. Legal Notice Privacy Policy Contact Us