Climate Change Goals Skip to main content For the best website experience, please enable JavaScript on your Internet browser. Turn on more accessible mode Turn off more accessible mode Sign In Toggle navigation Menu Search close search We want you to be able to access myAccount. However, the new, easy-to-use features in myAccount require you to enable cookies. Here are some shortcuts to help you with this: Help for Chrome users. Help for Firefox users. For Internet Explorer users. For Safari users. Once you have enabled cookies for this website, please refresh by clicking here . 4c501127-87d7-4936-8c50-b8dc7dbb3798 July 28, 2021 2 min. read Energizing Today Ontario-wide Announcing our commitment to net-zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 Doing our part to tackle climate change, diversity in our workforce and support Indigenous businesses and communities Our mission to energize life for Ontarians means committing to a more sustainable future for generations to come. We’re proud to share our sustainability commitments to do our part in building a better and brighter future for all. “At Hydro One, we recognize the vital role we play in energizing life for Ontarians. As a transmission and distribution company, Hydro One is uniquely positioned to facilitate the transition towards a low-carbon economy. We are a sustainable company and we are taking action now to stand for people, the planet and communities and build a sustainable future for our grandchildren and great-grandchildren.” Mark Poweska, President & CEO, Hydro One We are focused on three priority areas where we believe we can make the greatest impact. Climate Change and Extreme Weather We’re committed to achieving net-zero greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 2050, with a target to achieve a 30% GHG emissions reduction by 2030. We’re also committed to greening our fleet by converting all of our light-duty gasoline-powered vehicles (sedans and SUVs) to electric vehicles and hybrids by 2030, with 50% converted by 2025. Indigenous and Community Partnerships We will continue to support the Indigenous economy by increasing our Indigenous procurement spend to 5% of the company’s purchases of materials and services by 2026. At least 20% of our corporate donations and sponsorships will be directed to Indigenous communities or to initiatives that benefit Indigenous communities. Diversifying Talent We’re committed to achieving 3.5% Black executives and board directors and 5% student hires by 2025, as part of the BlackNorth Initiative Pledge. As a signatory of the Catalyst Accord, at least 30% of our executives and board members will be individuals who identify as women. “Hydro One’s net-zero commitment is a great example of the kind of bold and ambitious action needed to address climate change and protect our environment for future generations. I commend Hydro One for helping Ontario achieve its emissions reduction targets, because clean, green growth is our province’s way forward.” David Piccini, Minister of the Environment, Conservation and Parks “The Ontario Chamber of Commerce is proud to support Hydro One in its commitment to building a more sustainable and inclusive province. Today’s announcement speaks to the importance of working collectively and taking leadership to address critical issues facing Ontarians, including the climate crisis, employment diversity, and economic reconciliation with Indigenous communities. Ontario’s business community is committed to building a more diverse and sustainable future, and our energy sector is rich with solutions that are win-win for both the environment and the economy.” Rocco Rossi, President and CEO, Ontario Chamber of Commerce Read our full sustainability report here . Read the News Release Back to Blog Home Read more about how we are energizing life in Ontario Energizing Tomorrow Enabling economic and residential growth in Ottawa with increase of available power and improved reliability July 26, 2021 2 min. read Energizing Today Caregiving Matters is helping 1,200 rural and isolated seniors with new virtual safety programming July 12, 2021 1 min. read Page Content