Sustainable Development | iA Financial Group We use cookies to offer you a better experience, analyze site traffic, and serve targeted advertisements. By continuing to use this website, you consent to the use of cookies in accordance with our Terms of use . OK SkipToContent Toggle navigation Search Search iafg-d Individuals Companies and Groups Advisors and Brokers Search Search FR Connect My Client Space Advisor Centre Dealer Centre (UniFI) Partner Centre (Rave) iafg-d Connect My Client Space Advisor Centre Dealer Centre (UniFI) Partner Centre (Rave) About us Careers Contact us Contact an advisor FR Oops! JavaScript is Disabled. To benefit from all the functionalities of our website, you must activate JavaScript in your browser's settings. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Our sustainability ambition is to be a company that contributes to sustainable growth and wellbeing for its clients, employees, partners, investors and communities. Download our 2021 report download Our sustainable development goals At iA Financial Group, we contribute to the achievement of the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). To do this, we have chosen five of the SDGs that are aligned with our company mission and to which we can make a significant contribution. Good health and wellbeing Ensure healthy lives and promote wellbeing for all at all ages. Our commitment: Offer our clients products and services that provide access to quality health care and health services. Promote healthy lifestyles as well as physical and mental wellbeing among our clients, employees and communities. Support the wellbeing of individuals and the community through our donation and community involvement policy. Decent work and economic growth Promote inclusive and sustainable economic growth, employment and decent work for all. Our commitment: Offer our clients products and services that ensure their financial wellbeing by offering them personal insurance coverage and investment solutions to help them achieve their personal goals. Be an employer of choice that offers a rewarding career by offering our employees job stability, advantageous working conditions, support in their development and the opportunity to use their talents and reach their full potential. Support the economic growth of our communities through our sourcing practices and choice of service providers. Support education, as well as the integration of people in vulnerable situations in the community, through our donation and community involvement policy. Reduced inequalities within and among countries Our commitment: Offer a positive employee experience and a workplace that promotes diversity and inclusion, regardless of ethnic origin, nationality, language, religious beliefs, gender, sexual orientation, age, marital status, family situation or physical or mental disability. Support the communities in which we operate through our donation and community involvement policy. Sustainable cities and communities Make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable. Our commitment: Measure and manage the environmental performance of our real estate portfolio. Support alternative modes of transportation, such as carpooling, public transit and active transportation, among our employees and the community. Measure and optimize our waste management practices. Promote urban farming and beekeeping projects on our properties, where appropriate. Climate action Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts. Our commitment: Be a carbon-neutral company by proactively reducing our carbon footprint at the source and by offsetting residual greenhouse gas emissions through the purchase of carbon credits. Measure and manage the environmental performance of our real estate portfolio. Incorporate environmental concerns in our investment analysis and decision-making processes, in particular through our commitment to the United Nations-supported Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). Our guidelines Our Sustainable Development Policy (PDF) clearly expresses iA Financial Group’s commitment to creating economic and social value and our desire to share our sustainable development objectives and guidelines with our various stakeholders. Ensure the financial wellbeing of our clients Effectively manage risks Follow high standards of governance Actively contribute to our communities Manage environmental impact Create a rewarding work environment centred around diversity and inclusion Practice responsible sourcing Incorporate ESG factors in our investment processes Our ESG approach At iA Financial Group, our sustainability strategy incorporates environmental, social and governance factors across all our activities. Environment Making the world a safer place by reducing our environmental impact Explore our actions Social Being an exemplary corporate citizen for all our stakeholders Discover our involvement Governance Drawing on and adopting best governance practices to ensure our organizational sustainability Learn about our practices Our contribution to sustainable finance Committed to the United Nations-supported Principles for Responsible Investment, we strive to continually improve our socially responsible investment strategy in line with our sustainability ambition and the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals. Learn more ic_trophy-award Our awards and distinctions We are continually working to improve our practices and develop new initiatives. At iA Financial Group, we are proud of our achievements and have received a number of awards and distinctions for our work. See our awards and distinctions ic_initiative Our initiatives Over the years, we have realized that our company’s health goes hand in hand with that of our partners and our communities. As such, we have implemented numerous initiatives rooted in a perspective of sustainable development. Our sustainability report See how we contribute to sustainable growth and wellbeing for our clients, employees, partners, investors and communities. Download our 2021 report download Archives 2020 report (PDF) download 2019 report (PDF) download 2018 report (PDF) download 2017 report (PDF) download 2016 report (PDF) download About iA Careers Contact us Find an advisor Make a claim Connect to My Client Space Advice Zone Sustainable development COVID-19 Site map Unsubscribe Accessibility Privacy and security Terms of use Unclaimed property INVESTED IN YOU. © 2023 Industrial Alliance Insurance and Financial Services Inc. – iA Financial Group. All rights reserved.