Environment  | Metro Close Corporate Responsibility Environment En Fr Home | Contact | Close About Us Investors Suppliers Governance Corporate Responsibility Careers Media About Us History Food Pharmacy Investor information Financial information Annual General Meeting RangeMe Responsible packaging Governance Board of Directors Management Team Directors' Skills Committees Corporate Responsibility Products and services Environment Colleagues Communities Careers Life at METRO Why work at METRO? COVID-19 : FAQ - recruitment processes Opportunities Events Newsroom Distribution List Press Contact About METRO Company Updates Shares Annual Reports Quarterly Reports Annual Information Forms Management Proxy Circular Career Opportunities Selection Process Career Description Apply for Any Position Environment METRO aims to improve its environmental performance in several ways. Our priorities: reduce our greenhouse gas emissions, manage our waste and reduce food waste. Climate change Waste Food waste Climate change Our ambition is to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions to limit global warming by focusing our efforts on key sectors over which we have direct operational control. Through these actions, we aim to contribute to the collective effort to transition to a lower-carbon economy. Objective Reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 37.5% by 2035 compared to 2020 for an average reduction of 2.5% per year The main sources of GHG emissions that will be the target of our reduction programs are building energy consumption, refrigerants, waste and transport For information on our key performance indicators, see our 2022-2026 Corporate Responsibility Plan Climate change Our ambition is to reduce our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions to limit global warming by focusing our efforts on key sectors over which we have direct operational control. Through these actions, we aim to contribute to the collective effort to transition to a lower-carbon economy. Our objective Reduce GHG emissions by 37.5% by 2035 compared to 2020 for an average reduction of 2.5% per year To learn more METRO is committed to reducing its greenhouse gas emissions for several years. Our teams focus their efforts on key sectors for the company, including: Refrigerants Transportation Energy efficiency Suppliers METRO’s carbon footprint This year for the first time, we are reporting both our total amount of GHG emissions emitted (absolute) and our GHG emissions relative to our size expressed in square footage (intensity). Our greenhouse gas emissions SCOPE 1 Refrigerant leaks — 42.36% Transport — 5.20% Building energy consumption (Fuel) — 19.84% SCOPE 2 Building energy consumption (Electricity) — 3.74% SCOPE 3 Waste elimination — 13.22% Merchandise transport — 15.52% Business travel — 0.12% 2020 GHG Inventories (baseline year) Emission Source 2022 GHG Emissions (Tonnes CO 2 e) Scope 1 Total 270,761 Scope 2 Total 17,872 Scope 3 Total 170,769 Overall Total 459,402 Our greenhouse gas emissions in intensity Corporate and franchised stores and distribution and manufacturing centres - Québec and Ontario. 2021 GHG emissions and 2022 GHG emissions details are available in our GHG emissions infosheet . Climate Change Disclosure In 2022, METRO submitted its 15 th carbon footprint to CDP, reporting data from 2021. This information is publicly available on the CDP’s website . In 2022, METRO announced its support for the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), publicly committing to working towards implementing TCFD’s 11 recommendations in the next years. This offers us an additional way to share how we are managing climate-related risks and opportunities to help reduce investors’ risks, maximize their financial rewards, and minimize market disruptions related to climate change. For more details, please refer to METRO’s TCFD index. To learn more, see our Corporate Responsibility Report 2022 (PDF) . Waste Our ambition is to avoid sending waste generated by our activities to landfill with the view to achieving zero waste at our locations, representing a diversion rate of at least 90%. We intend to enhance our performance by mobilizing our teams to optimize our operational practices. Objective Improve the average diversion rate of all our establishments compared to 2020: Corporate and franchise food stores: Achieve zero waste in 25% of stores Achieve 80 to 89% diversion in 25% of stores Achieve at least 50% diversion in all stores Distribution and production centres: Achieve zero waste For information on our key performance indicators, see our 2022-2026 Corporate Responsibility Plan Waste Our ambition is to avoid sending waste generated by our activities to landfill with the view to achieving zero waste at our locations, representing a diversion rate of at least 90%. We intend to enhance our performance by mobilizing our teams to optimize our operational practices. To learn more Our waste management program aims to reduce the environmental impacts of eliminating residual materials, including GHG emissions, and facilitate their valorization. The waste objectives related to diversion are divided into two targets: one for stores and one for distribution/production centres. We aim for all stores to achieve at least 50% diversion, 25% of stores to achieve 80 to 89% diversion, and 25% of stores to achieve zero waste. As for our distribution and production centres, we aim to achieve zero waste. Key to diversion are our recycling and recovery streams. Corporate and franchised stores recovery stream quantities during our 2022 reporting year in metric tonnes Distribution and production centres recovery stream quantities during our 2022 reporting year in metric tonnes Food waste Our ambition is to ensure that food that is safe for consumption and food residue generated by our activities are not thrown away. By redistributing them to organizations or giving them a second life, we are helping to address food insecurity and reduce the GHG emissions caused by landfilled organic waste. Objective Reduce food waste in our activities by 50% by 2025 compared to 2016 For information on our key performance indicators, see our 2022-2026 Corporate Responsibility Plan Food waste Our ambition is to ensure that food that is safe for consumption and food residue generated by our activities are not thrown away. By redistributing them to organizations or giving them a second life, we are helping to address food insecurity and reduce the GHG emissions caused by landfilled organic waste. To learn more METRO is committed to reducing the food waste generated by our activities by half by 2025 compared to 2016 in an effort to tackle two major challenges for society: METRO is committed to reducing the food waste generated by our activities by half by 2025 compared to 2016 in an effort to tackle two major challenges for society: Food insecurity Environmental impacts generated by the landfilling of organic waste Valorization of food loss and waste Our food loss and waste methodology aligns with the Food Loss and Waste Accounting and Reporting Standard , including its recommendations on the preferred solutions to manage surplus and FLW. As a priority, we aim to prevent food surplus. Then, food surplus must be redistributed to feed humans. For example, our One More Bite program redistributes unsold products to people in need through our charitable partners: Food Banks of Québec, Second Harvest, and Feed Ontario. Between 2016 and 2022, we distributed more than 23 million kilograms of food, helping to fight food insecurity while keeping waste out of landfills. For food products that cannot be sold or donated for human consumption, we look for ways to dispose of them responsibly through high valorization destinations: animal feed or biomaterial processing. When those destinations are not possible, we prioritize destinations with some valorization: anaerobic digestion, compost, and controlled combustion. Sending food to landfill is the least preferred solution, thus we aim to send zero food to this destination. For more details on our methodology and performance, please refer to our Food Loss and Waste infosheet . To consult our environmental reference documents, click here . Top SHARE METRO Head office 11 011, boul. Maurice-Duplessis Montreal (Quebec) H1C 1V6 (514) 643-1000 1 (800) 361-4681 About Us About Us History Food Segment Pharmaceutical Segment Media Newsroom Distribution list Sponsorship request Investor Relations Shareholder Information Financial information Annual General Meeting Stock Price Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Board of Directors Management Team Directors' Skills Committees Careers Preview Life at METRO Why work at METRO? Opportunities Events Find us on Linkedin Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility Products and services Environment Colleagues Communities © Metro - Terms of Use | Privacy | Cookies En Fr En Fr About Us About Us History Food Pharmacy Investors Investor information Financial information Shares Annual Reports Quarterly Reports Annual Information Forms Management Proxy Circular Annual General Meeting Suppliers RangeMe Responsible packaging Governance Governance Board of Directors Management Team Directors' Skills Committees Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility Products and services Environment Colleagues Communities Careers Careers Life at METRO Why work at METRO? COVID-19 : FAQ - recruitment processes Opportunities Career Opportunities Selection Process Career Description Apply for Any Position Events Media Newsroom Distribution List Press Contact About METRO Company Updates Contact Us Terms of Use © Metro Richelieu Inc.