Commitments and impact | National Bank Go to page content Go to main menu Sign in to my account Personal Business Wealth Management About Us Search Find us Fr Become a client Personal Business Sign in Online transactions Personal Business Direct Brokerage NB Financial Natbank Group Retirement Plans Securities Custody Private Banking 1859 Governance Commitments and impact Investors News and communications Sign in Online transactions Personal Business Direct Brokerage NB Financial Natbank Group Retirement Plans Securities Custody Private Banking 1859 Close CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Commitments and impact Discover how we're working to build a sustainable future for everyone Read our last ESG report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Commitments and impact Discover how we're working to build a sustainable future for everyone Read our last ESG report Our commitment to sustainability Our One Mission is to have a positive impact on people’s lives, and
  building a sustainable future is a part of that. Our environmental,
    social and governance (ESG) principles demonstrate our
  commitment to building a sustainable future while representing
  the best interests of society. Our ESG principles at a glance From funding startups to supporting the protection of the Arctic, we contribute to many of the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals through our ESG initiatives. Environment We’re working to develop a green economy Social We’re enriching communities Governance We govern according to the highest standards Environment: our targets and contributions As a major player in the Canadian financial industry, we’re
  determined to reduce the impact of our activities on the environment.
  We aim to maintain the highest standards of climate risk
  management and support our clients in implementing sustainable practices . Our greenhouse gas emission reduction targets Here are two of our concrete commitments to reduce our greenhouse
    gas (GHG) emissions: ↓ 25% by the end of 2025 for our own operations 1 Net-zero by 2050 for our operating and financing activities 2 Read our latest report on the Task Force on Climate-related
    Financial Disclosures Advances (TCFD) to learn about our
  progress in managing climate risk. Our support for energy transition Among our initiatives, we helped finance the Grand Renewable Wind
  project in Ontario. This 67-turbine plant produces 149
  MW , enough clean energy to power 50,000 homes in Ontario.
  That's the equivalent of taking 83,000 cars off the road each
  year compared to carbon production. Social: people first We believe that people are the foundation of our success .
  That’s why we’re committed to our clients, team, and community. Our clients You're at the heart of all our efforts. It's only natural that we
  offer a human experience that focuses on support at every
  milestone in your life. We’re here to provide you with sound advice, services
    that are accessible both in-branch and online , and assistance
    tailored to seniors . At the same time, we're committed to simplifying the experience
    of our business clients and supporting entrepreneurship . We're
  proud to participate in a variety of training programs and support a
  dozen business incubators and accelerators. Our team We want to create one of the most exciting workplaces in the country
  and provide our employees with an experience that focuses on
    well-being and continuous development . Our talent reflects our
  commitment to inclusion
    and diversity. These values help us become a strong, creative,
  and relevant organization. Making a positive impact on people's lives
  starts right here . Our community We're committed to the communities in which we operate. Our clients,
  as well as our
    current and retired employees are involved by participating in
  our fundraising programs. We support over 300 organizations in
  Canada in fields such as arts and culture, notably through our
  corporate collection of more than 7,000 pieces by local artists. Supporting financial education Solid financial footing starts with knowledge. We are committed to making personal finance clearer and more accessible to
  everyone . How do we do it? By providing a range of financial
  literacy resources, including a program offered in partnership
    with the Canadian Foundation for Economic Education . Governance: our high ethical standards Integrity, trust, and honesty guide our relationships. We apply
    the highest ethical standards in the way we do business, from
  risk management to anticorruption. By implementing sound
    corporate governance practices and working with our
  stakeholders, we can make a lasting contribution to society's changing needs. We promote a strong ethics culture, sound governance practices, and
  rigorous risk management. Ensuring cybersecurity One of our governance focuses is the protection of our systems and
  the information we hold. We're continuously improving information
    security to protect our clients , their data, and personal information. Our ESG initiatives in detail Learn more about our ESG initiatives and engagements in our 2021
    Report on Environmental, Social and Governance Progress . Read our ESG report Our reports Browse our reports, and codes and commitments for detailed
  information on our economic, social, and environmental impacts. Read our reports Read our previous ESG
    reports ↓ Our donation program Through our philanthropic efforts, we're able to give back to the
  community. We support many organizations in a variety of fields,
  selected according to strict guidelines. Apply for a donation Read the details for
    financial support ↓ Little details that matter Policy on financial support Want to apply for a donation? Follow the steps below if your donation
  request is for: An annual fundraising campaign A major fundraising campaign How to request a donation: Review the eligibility criteria below to see if your
    application is eligible for funding. Please note that eligibility
    does not guarantee funding. Each application follows an evaluation
    process and financial support is granted according to the available
    budget and National Bank's objectives. Once your online
    application is submitted, you'll receive a confirmation email.
    Please allow three months for a response. The timeline may be longer
    if we receive a very large number of requests or if yours is
    incomplete. If this happens, we'll contact you for more
  information. The selection process is guided by our donation policy, which serves
  as a tool in the evaluation of applications received. This process is
  designed to be as fair and transparent as possible and to maximize the
  impact on the community. Eligibility criteria For National Bank to consider your application, it needs to meet the
  following criteria: Come from a non-profit organization Address National Bank's priority sectors, as described in the
      donations section. These include health, education, community
      support, arts and culture, entrepreneurship, inclusion and
      diversity, and the environment. Exclusions At National Bank, we believe that all not-for-profit organizations
  deserve support. Unfortunately, we can't fund all the requests we
  receive, no matter how worthy they are. To standardize our approach,
  we prefer to focus our philanthropic efforts outside the following areas: Organizations that are not registered under federal law Organizations that receive financial support from United
    Way/Centraide Provincial campaigns for organizations that we already support at
      the national level Social clubs Political parties, political organizations, or interest groups
      promoting a political ideology Lobby and special-interest groups Individual projects Private foundations Private elementary and high schools Projects taking place outside Canada Annual conferences and meetings Audio, video or web productions Donation management National Bank applies these criteria to all eligible requests, and
  the selection of organizations that receive financial support is based
  on those criteria. We consider the following: Nature of the request and financial objective of the campaign History of donations already made to the requesting
    organization Value of our commitments in the requesting organization's
    sector Analysis of comparable donations made in the same sector Commitment of our employees to that cause or organization Other types of donations The majority of National Bank's contributions to organizations may
  be of a financial nature, but donations can sometimes take another form. Equipment donations Occasionally, National Bank will donate furniture and equipment that
  it is no longer being used. Responding to urgent needs In addition to concerted action and our donation program, National
  Bank's in-branch fund raising efforts have been put to use to relieve
  urgent humanitarian needs and support on-the-ground operations of the
  Canadian Red Cross. Previous ESG reports 2020 ESG report 2019 ESG report Legal disclaimers 1. Reference year: 2019. This science-based and absolute target aims
  to help limit global warming to 1.5°C. It includes Scope 1, 2 and 3
  emissions (Scope 3 includes employee business travel and paper
  consumption as part of the supply chain). 2. National Bank joined the United Nations Net-Zero Banking Alliance
  in 2021, which supports banks' efforts to combat climate change by
  aligning financing activities with the goal of net-zero emissions by 2050. Useful links Lost or stolen card Change of address Complaint settlement Report wrongdoing Exchange rates Interest rates Jobs Help and contact Contact us Find a branch Make an appointment Help Centre Subsidiaries National Bank Trust National Bank Investments Natbank National Bank Financial Divisions of National Bank Financial National Bank Direct Brokerage Private Banking 1859 National Bank Independent Network News Press releases Financial news Important notices Terms of use | Accessibility | Privacy policy | Cookies | ABCs of security © NATIONAL BANK OF CANADA. All rights reserved 2023. ® The NATIONAL BANK logo and POWERING YOUR IDEAS are registered trademarks of National Bank of Canada. Useful links Lost or stolen card Change of address Complaint settlement Wrongdoing reporting Exchange rates Interest rates Jobs Help and contact Contact us Find a branch Make an apointment Help Centre Subsidiaries National Bank Direct Brokerage National Bank Trust National Bank investments National Bank Financial National Banque Independent Network Private Banking 1859 Natbank News Press releases Economic analysis Market summary Foreign exchange market analysis Important notices Terms of use | Accessibility | Privacy policy | Cookies | ABCs of security © NATIONAL BANK OF CANADA. All rights reserved 2023. ® The NATIONAL BANK logo and POWERING YOUR IDEAS are registered trademarks of National Bank of Canada.