Our Impact - About Rogers Skip to content Our Impact EN FR Menu Overview Next Generation Giving Back to Communities Truth and Reconciliation Impact Reports EN FR Our Commitment What We Do Life at Rogers Our Impact News & Ideas Our Commitment Overview Network Service Customer Communities Next Generation What We Do Overview Network Consumer Media Business Life at Rogers Overview Employee Experience Inclusion & Diversity Our Impact Overview Next Generation Giving Back to Communities Truth and Reconciliation Impact Reports Security & Privacy Overview Privacy Centre Fraud and Scams News & Ideas Terms and Conditions Accessibility Security & Privacy Terms and Conditions Accessibility Security & Privacy Our Impact We’re investing in our communities and youth from coast to coast. Next generation Helping Canadian youth achieve their highest potential. Learn More Giving back to communities Making a meaningful impact in the communities where we live and work. Learn More Truth and Reconciliation At Rogers, we are committed to making a meaningful impact in partnership with Indigenous communities and our Indigenous team members on the collective journey of truth and reconciliation. Learn More Great companies are also great citizens Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) refers to a set of standards measuring a company’s efforts to support its people, communities, and the planet. Learn more about how Rogers is working to meet global standards of environmental sustainability, corporate citizenship, and good governance. Learn More Latest Community News View all articles Articles Feb 27, 2023 Breaking ground to bring year-round tennis to Canadian communities with Tennis Canada New communities will have access to year-round tennis later this year, as Tennis Canada announced the next four facilities to  ... Articles Dec 2, 2022 Homeruns for everyone! Jays Care is committed to leveling the playing field and making baseball more inclusive for children and youth across Canada Marking the International Day for Persons with Disabilities, see how Challenger Baseball empowers the disability community through sport    Let’ ... Articles Nov 17, 2022 It takes a village: working together to rebuild after Hurricane Fiona When Hurricane Fiona hit Atlantic Canada in September, the small town of Cormier Village, 30 km northeast of Moncton, New Brunswick,  ... Previous Button Next Button Articles Feb 27, 2023 Breaking ground to bring year-round tennis to Canadian communities with Tennis Canada New communities will have access to year-round tennis later this year, as Tennis Canada announced the next four facilities to  ... Articles Dec 2, 2022 Homeruns for everyone! Jays Care is committed to leveling the playing field and making baseball more inclusive for children and youth across Canada Marking the International Day for Persons with Disabilities, see how Challenger Baseball empowers the disability community through sport    Let’ ... Articles Nov 17, 2022 It takes a village: working together to rebuild after Hurricane Fiona When Hurricane Fiona hit Atlantic Canada in September, the small town of Cormier Village, 30 km northeast of Moncton, New Brunswick,  ... Our Impact News Research & Reports Investor Relations Leadership Team Board of Directors Rogers.com Careers Terms and Conditions Accessibility Security & Privacy Contact Us Twitter