Climate | RBC Royal Bank Skip to main content Other Sites Banking Investing at RBC Wealth Management Capital Markets About RBC www.rbcinsurance.com Search RBC... Contact Us Find a Branch Call 1-800-769-2511 (EN) Sign In SIGN IN MENU Ask your question Our Company Investor Relations News & Stories Careers Thought Leadership Search RBC Personal Banking Promotions Contact Us Location MENU Climate Accelerating Clean Economic Growth and Supporting Our Clients in the Transition to Net-Zero Climate change is one of the most pressing issues of our age. Driven by our purpose to help clients thrive and communities prosper, RBC will lead and take action to build a more inclusive and sustainable future. Reimagining a sustainable future Our Actions on Climate and Achieving Net-Zero Tackling climate change presents a big challenge and an even greater opportunity for Canada, one that will impact all of our lives, and those of generations to come. Global plans to drastically reduce greenhouse gas emissions (GHGs) down to ‘net-zero’ by 2050 requires the largest change to our economy in our lifetime, and one that RBC is fully committed to supporting. RBC is using our size and scale to align with ambitious new global targets and set new standards for our industry. This includes joining the Net-Zero Banking Alliance , reaching net-zero emissions in our lending by 2050, and being a strong partner to governments and society in reaching the goals of the Paris Agreement. Our Strategy The RBC Climate Blueprint (opens in new window) is our enterprise strategy to accelerate clean economic growth and support our clients in a socially inclusive transition to net-zero. Our strategy is focused on four key priorities: Help clients as they transition to net-zero Learn More Hold ourselves accountable Learn More Inform and inspire a sustainable future Learn More Advance net-zero leadership in our own operations Learn More Working Towards a Sustainable Future Our journey to net-zero is a priority, and we continue to make steady progress helping our clients, communities and the planet. Successes include: Our commitment to providing $500 billion in sustainable finance  by 2025, supported by a Sustainable Finance Framework Open sustainable finance framework P D F 759kb in a new tab that brings transparency to our approach and methodology. Updating goals and commitments within enterprise climate change strategy in 2021, including a new commitment to achieving net-zero emissions in lending by 2050 and bold commitments to reduce our emissions by 70% and source 100% of our electricity from renewable and non-emitting sources, both by 2025. Becoming the first financial institution in Canada to sign a long-term renewable energy Power Purchase Agreement. Funding more than 100 initiatives to solve pressing environmental challenges through RBC Tech for Nature, with more than $27 million being invested in 125 community partnerships since 2019. Publishing the $2 Trillion Transition, our flagship net-zero report that charts a path through the challenges and opportunities facing Canada. Joining the Net-Zero Banking Alliance, a global, industry led-initiative to accelerate and support efforts to address climate change, and support an orderly and just transition to our net-zero future. See all of RBC’s Climate Programs & Initiatives How We Measure Our Impact Aligned to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), the RBC Impact Measurement Framework (IMF) simplifies how we measure our impact. RBC Environmental initiatives outcomes and results: Empowering our clients $83.8 billion in Sustainable Finance in 2021 $597.2 billion in assets under management that integrate material ESG factors in 2021 1.5 billion tonnes of carbon traded in 2021 Committing to net-zero Net-zero emissions in our lending by 2050 70% reduction in GHG emissions by 2025 100% of electricity sourcing from renewable and non-emitting sources by 2025 Being an active partner Over $10 million in donations to more than 110 universities and charities through RBC Tech for Nature in 2021 See the ESG Performance Report (PDF) for more details. Sharing Our Progress RBC is committed to playing an important role in advancing a more inclusive, sustainable and prosperous future. The following reports demonstrate RBC’s accelerated commitments to helping clients thrive and communities prosper: 2022 Net-Zero Report Open Net Zero Target Report P D F 1015kb in a new tab Outlines our initial interim emissions reduction targets for the Oil & Gas sector, and the Power Generation and Automotive sub-sectors, our target-setting methodology, and the principles and beliefs that guided the target setting process, including our beliefs on the role for banks and other stakeholders in the transition to net zero. 2022 Climate Report (PDF) Summarizes progress to date in advancing how we manage climate-related risks and opportunities in line with our enterprise climate strategy, the RBC Climate Blueprint, and in implementing the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). 2022 ESG Performance Report (PDF) Offers insights into our approach to ESG and our overarching strategies, new and ongoing commitments, and performance across our key ESG strategic priorities and focus areas. 2021 Green Bond Report (PDF) Provides our investors with updates regarding RBC’s EUR500 million 5-year Green Bond offering from 2020. View Legal Disclaimers Hide Legal Disclaimers Legal Disclaimer 1 Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, our GHG emissions from business travel decreased by over 60%. Decreases in our absolute GHG emissions were driven by a combination of factors including lower occupancy rates in our office spaces due to stay-at-home requirements, our continued operational efficiency programming, our increased focus on and investment in renewable energy for our operations and the continued decarbonization of electrical grids globally. Legal Disclaimer 2 For more information about our methodology for tracking sustainable finance business activities, please see our Sustainable Finance Commitment (PDF) . Footer Links About RBC Our Company Corporate Governance Investor Relations History Contact Us Regulatory Information News Media Newsroom Thought Leadership Awards Publications Covid-19 Updates Corporate Citizenship Community and Social Impact Commitment to Youth ESG Reporting Voluntary Codes and Public Commitments Modern Slavery Act Statement Work at RBC Careers at RBC Diversity & Inclusion at RBC Become a Supplier Royal Bank of Canada Website, © 1995- Legal | Accessibility | Privacy & Security Back to Top