Climate | Saputo Promise | Saputo Skip to Content English Français Español Home Our Company Management Team Governance History Explore Our Products Canada Sector USA Sector International Sector Europe Sector Explore Our Promise Food Quality and Safety Our People Business Ethics Responsible Sourcing Environment Nutrition Community Case Studies Reference Documents Explore Investors Shareholder Reports Investor Toolkit Newsroom Calendar of Events Explore Careers Opportunities Work Culture Employee Benefits Learning & Development Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Life at Saputo Contact Us Contact Us Home Our Promise Environment Climate Climate Environment Overview Climate Water Waste & Packaging We recognize the importance of reducing our impact on, and adapting to, climate change. In FY2020, we pledged to accelerate our global climate performance and announced clear targets and a formal commitment to make significant and sustainable progress by 2025. More specifically, we committed to: Reducing the CO 2 intensity of our operations by 20%. Reducing the energy intensity of our operations by 10%. We allocated a portion of our three-year CDN$50 million investment to complete climate-specific projects across our network and pursued opportunities to source renewable electricity. Some key projects include: In our Dairy Division (Australia), we commenced a large-scale renewable power purchasing agreement which will enable 46% of our electricity consumption in Australia to be offset with renewable energy—saving 61,000 tons of CO 2 , which represents a 5.6% reduction in our global CO 2 footprint. In our Dairy Division (UK), we completed the installation of 9,400 solar panels at our Davidstow plant, which is expected to save more than 1,000 tonnes of CO 2 annually. Globally, we completed nine additional energy-saving projects such as heat recovery systems, steam accumulators, and updated boiler controls. On an annual basis, these projects will save over 94,500 GJ of energy and more than 8,000 tonnes of CO 2 . An additional 19 energy and carbon saving projects will be funded in FY23, which are expected to generate an estimated savings of 188,000 GJ and 10,000 tonnes of CO 2 e. As we progress on this ongoing journey, we continue to align our climate-related disclosure with the TCFD recommendations, and are proud to maintain our B score by CDP. To learn more about our GHG emissions and climate disclosure, click here . Our Company Overview Management Team Governance History Our Products Overview Canada Sector USA Sector International Sector Europe Sector Our Promise Overview Food Quality and Safety Our People Business Ethics Responsible Sourcing Environment Nutrition Community Case Studies Reference Documents Investors Overview Shareholder Reports Investor Toolkit Newsroom Calendar of Events Careers Opportunities Life at Saputo Work Culture Employee Benefits Learning & Development Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Contact Us Online By Mail By Phone © Saputo Inc. All right reserved. Saputo produces, markets, and distributes a wide array of dairy
     products of the utmost quality, including cheese, fluid milk,
     extended shelf-life milk and cream products, cultured products and
     dairy ingredients. Legal Notice Privacy Policy Privacy Notice California Candidates Recruitment Fraud Notice