Climate | Suncor Skip to main content Suncor Energy Inc. What we do What we do At Suncor, we extract, produce and provide energy from a mix of sources, ranging from oil sands to renewable fuels. Here's what we do Oil sands Refining Exploration and production Low-carbon fuels Low-carbon power Petro-Canada Supply and trading Locations Who we are Who we are We’re a globally competitive integrated energy company. Explore who we are Our purpose and values Our strategy Governance Health and safety Inclusion and diversity Technology and innovation Business conduct Our history Climate Climate As an energy company with a strategy that keeps us resilient for the long term, we are charting a path to a net-zero world to realize our shared climate objectives. How we're doing this Climate strategy and targets Reducing greenhouse gas emissions Energy transition Performance and disclosure Sustainability Sustainability To live our purpose of providing trusted energy, we focus on sustainable energy development that minimizes environmental impact, while building relationships with local communities, Indigenous Peoples and stakeholders. How we're doing this Indigenous relations Environment Sustainability reporting Community engagement Community investment News and stories News and stories See the inside stories along with press releases, speeches and other press tools. Read our stories News releases Our stories Publications Photo library Speeches Logos Careers Careers Suncor has exciting job opportunities for engineers, trades people, professionals and new graduates. Explore careers Why choose us Current opportunities Skilled trades and operators Students and new grads Career and development Compensation and benefits Careers with contract partners Investors Suncor Energy Inc. Symbol: TSX:SU Price: Change: Symbol: NYSE:SU Price: Change: 20-minute delay Learn about investing in Suncor Our business Financial reports Stock information Corporate guidance Investor presentations FAQs Current page language is English EN English Français Toggle search box visibility Close global search box Search anything Search Popular searches Climate report Commerce City Report on sustainability Strategy Toggle search box visibility Close global search box Search anything Search Popular searches Climate report Commerce City Report on sustainability Strategy What we do What we do At Suncor, we extract, produce and provide energy from a mix of sources, ranging from oil sands to renewable fuels. Here's what we do Oil sands Refining Exploration and production Low-carbon fuels Low-carbon power Petro-Canada Supply and trading Locations Who we are Who we are We’re a globally competitive integrated energy company. Explore who we are Our purpose and values Our strategy Governance Health and safety Inclusion and diversity Technology and innovation Business conduct Our history Climate Climate As an energy company with a strategy that keeps us resilient for the long term, we are charting a path to a net-zero world to realize our shared climate objectives. How we're doing this Climate strategy and targets Reducing greenhouse gas emissions Energy transition Performance and disclosure Sustainability Sustainability To live our purpose of providing trusted energy, we focus on sustainable energy development that minimizes environmental impact, while building relationships with local communities, Indigenous Peoples and stakeholders. How we're doing this Indigenous relations Environment Sustainability reporting Community engagement Community investment News and stories News and stories See the inside stories along with press releases, speeches and other press tools. Read our stories News releases Our stories Publications Photo library Speeches Logos Careers Careers Suncor has exciting job opportunities for engineers, trades people, professionals and new graduates. Explore careers Why choose us Current opportunities Skilled trades and operators Students and new grads Career and development Compensation and benefits Careers with contract partners Investors Suncor Energy Inc. Symbol: TSX:SU Price: Change: Symbol: NYSE:SU Price: Change: 20-minute delay Learn about investing in Suncor Our business Financial reports Stock information Corporate guidance Investor presentations FAQs Careers Contact us Current page language is English EN English Français Climate Transforming the future of energy. Climate change is a complex challenge that requires all of us to transform our relationship with energy. Our collective future will be shaped by how we respond to a number of environmental challenges. We must work together to help meet the world’s climate goals while doing our part to ensure global energy security and supply of energy. Our objective Be a net-zero greenhouse gas emissions company by 2050 Getting to net-zero starts by reducing the emissions footprint of our base business. We’re meeting ambition with action by transforming the emissions footprint of our core business, while also expanding our low emissions businesses and working with our customers, governments and partners to realize our shared climate objectives. Explore our target 2022 Climate Report (45 pages, 2 MB) 2022 Report on Sustainability (89 pages, 5 MB) The energy transition The low-carbon energy transition will take time and discipline, an unwavering long-term focus, a great deal of financial investment and unprecedented collaboration among businesses, governments and society. How we're doing this Climate is core to our strategy. If you look at the six strategic objectives that underpin our strategy, climate shows up in five of them, so it’s huge for us. Being a part of the solution is crucial for us through the energy transition. Arlene Strom, Chief Sustainability Officer and General Counsel Our greenhouse gas target By 2030, reduce our annual greenhouse gas emissions by 10 megatonnes across our value chain Our target encourages new, lower-intensity production as part of our evaluation of new projects and drives real emission reductions in the energy system both within and external to Suncor’s operations. Explore our target Reducing greenhouse gas emissions Pathways to Net Zero Oil Sands Alliance As proud Canadian companies, members of the Pathways Alliance share the aspiration of Canadians to find realistic and workable solutions to the challenge of climate change. We want to help our country meet its Paris Agreement commitments, including its net-zero by 2050 aspirations. How we're making a difference Visit the website More climate stories Indigenous Making room for Indigenous voices at COP27 Environment Taking up all the air in the room for COP15 Sustainability Sustainability performance in a changing world Investments Cogeneration provides power while reducing emissions View all stories Our purpose is to provide trusted energy that enhances people’s lives, while caring for each other and the Earth. Careers Toggle navigation menu Why choose Suncor Current opportunities Skilled trades and operators Students and new grads Career and development Compensation and benefits Careers with contract partners Investors Toggle navigation menu Our business Shareholder information Investor presentations Financial reports Corporate guidance Doing business with Suncor Toggle navigation menu Current suppliers Prospective suppliers Contractor orientation and travel Carriers Contact us Sign up for news Legal and privacy Petro-Canada Follow us Twitter @Petro-Canada @Suncor @SuncorCareers Facebook Petro-Canada Suncor Careers Suncor Energy Ultra 94 Instagram Petro-Canada Suncor Energy YouTube Petro-Canada Suncor Energy LinkedIn Petro-Canada Suncor © Suncor Energy Inc. 2023. All Rights Reserved. ™ Trademark of Suncor Energy Inc.