TC Energy — Environment — Climate Change About Toggle navigation About TC Energy Governance Strategy People Explore Energy Contact Stories Creating our energy future We’re finding solutions for the sustainable energy future you want and sharing our insights and ideas on the current issues and challenges that are shaping the energy industry. Our leadership Guided by our values of safety, integrity, collaboration, innovation and responsibility, our leaders ensure that we develop and operate our facilities, safely, reliably and with minimal impact on the environment. News releases Read the latest announcements to cross the wire from TC Energy. Our Business Toggle navigation Overview Energy Solutions Natural Gas Oil and Liquids Power and Storage Operations maps Toggle navigation All assets Natural Gas Oil and Liquids Power and Storage Vendors Toggle navigation People and contracting FAQs Rules and guidelines Energy Solutions We are a leader in developing and operating energy infrastructure. We aim to leverage the size and scale of our energy network and trading platform to be the most trusted and reliable source of low carbon energy for the North American industrial, natural gas and oil sectors. Natural Gas Our network of natural gas pipelines supplies more than 25 per cent of the clean-burning natural gas consumed daily across North America to heat homes, fuel industries and generate power. Oil and Liquids TC Energy builds and operates safe and reliable energy infrastructure. This includes our network of oil & liquids pipelines, which supplies and delivers North American crude oil to help meet growing energy needs in Canada and the U.S. Power and Storage TC Energy’s owns or has interests in seven power generation facilities with a combined generating capacity of approximately 4,200 megawatts (MW) – enough to power more than 4 million homes. Our power assets are located in Canada and more than 75 per cent of the power we provide is generated from emission-less sources. Sustainability Toggle navigation Overview Safety Toggle navigation Safe Digging Pipeline and operations Emergency preparedness Employee and contractor Youth Energy Safe Moving ahead during COVID-19 Report on Sustainability Toggle navigation Protecting our planet Creating shared prosperity Empowering people Communities Toggle navigation Economic benefits Indigenous Toggle navigation Project participation People and contracting Community legacy Journey towards reconciliation Landowners Environment Toggle navigation Climate change Water Land and wildlife GHG Emissions Reduction Plan 2022 Report on Sustainability This year’s 2022 Report on Sustainability highlights the progress we have made on our targets related to finding solutions that protect our planet, create shared prosperity and empower people. Safety Our goal is for our pipeline and energy facilities to operate safely every day so that the public, our workforce and the environment aren’t affected by an incident involving our assets. Safety is, and always will be, our number one value. Working with Indigenous groups For more than 40 years, TC Energy has been engaging with Indigenous groups. We recognize Indigenous groups as rights holders who have a distinct relationship to the land. We understand that our business activities have the potential to affect these groups in tangible ways. Community Giving Toggle navigation Overview Build Strong Scholarships Apply for funding Employee Participation Build Strong Our community giving program, Build Strong, invests in organizations that are integral to local communities, and our business. Whether we are providing grants to organizations, awarding scholarships to students or sponsoring a local event that brings community members together, our goal is to help build strong, vibrant communities through mutually beneficial relationships. Scholarships Our scholarships are an easy way to get financial support for school. Now with close to 800 scholarships available across Canada, the U.S. and Mexico, you could receive a scholarship valued at up to $5,000. Employee participation Through the employee participation component of our Build Strong program, we support and encourage our employees to give back to their communities in ways that resonate with them personally through fundraising, donating, volunteering, or even simple acts of kindness that help make the world a better place. Investors Toggle navigation Overview Reports and filings ESG Why invest Stock info Toggle navigation Stock price Analyst coverage Investor FAQs Stock quote and charts Preferred shares Historical data Dividends Shareholders Toggle navigation Contact us Print request Historical information Tax information Electronic document delivery Events and presentations Notice and access Fourth Quarter 2022 Financial Highlights release Our diversified and irreplaceable portfolio of high-quality, long-life energy infrastructure assets continue to produce strong results. 2023 letter to shareholders CEO François Poirier and Chair Siim Vanaselja share their views on the outlook for our business in a lower-carbon energy future.  Our well-connected network of assets delivers the energy North American’s need while enabling the technologies of the future. Environment, social and governance TC Energy strives to be a leader in the delivery of energy in a safe, responsible and sustainable manner, ensuring we are positioned to maximize long-term value creation. Newsroom Toggle navigation Overview News releases Statements Photos Contact Us The next step in carbon reduction! We have entered into an agreement with the Government of Alberta (GoA) on our Alberta Carbon Grid (ACG) project to further evaluate one of the largest Areas of Interest (AOI) for safely storing carbon from industrial emissions in Alberta. News releases From innovative technology to community initiatives, there's always something new and newsworthy at TC Energy. Follow us for news and story ideas. Careers EN FR ES EN FR ES Search Keywords Search Search Contact Media Subscribe Click or Call Before You Dig Privacy Legal Notices Customer Central twitter facebook linkedin instagram youtube Safety Report on Sustainability Communities Indigenous Landowners Environment GHG Emissions Reduction Plan Climate change Climate change Water Land and wildlife Our commitment Climate change is one of the most pressing societal issues of our time and requires credible and concrete actions by everyone—corporations, governments and individuals—to see real and positive change. Our role in the energy transition will involve diversifying our energy portfolio, investing in innovative new technologies and setting attainable sustainability and GHG emissions reduction targets and goals that progress our organization and industry towards a more sustainable future. We are a signatory to the Methane Guiding Principles and strive to continually reduce methane emissions. In 2021, we set GHG emissions reductions targets with two main goals: Reduce the GHG emissions intensity of our operations by 30 per cent by 2030; and, Position to achieve net zero emissions from our operations by 2050. We invest millions of dollars each year in the advancement and research of new technologies. We collaborate with industry and government partners to advance environmental stewardship across the energy industry. We support environment-focused non-profit organizations through our community giving program. We have many activities underway to reduce emissions and develop solutions for the future — for example, leak detection and repair programs, natural gas pipeline modernization and electrification programs, solar and battery storage projects, pumped hydro storage projects, transportation of renewable natural gas, and promising possibilities for developing carbon capture and storage solutions. For more information, see our GHG Emissions Reduction Plan . Spotlight on: Methane emissions reductions We have been a driving force in the pipeline industry on developing and implementing new practices and technologies to reduce fugitive emissions during routine operations and maintenance. During maintenance, the use of pull-down compressors (such as the one pictured on the left) and hot tap procedures help us capture and recycle methane emissions. During operation, our Fugitive Emissions Inspection and Leak Repair Program enables us to identify leaks on pipeline and compressor station valves and other components to help reduce releases of natural gas. We are investing in new technology in our operations to improve tracking of our natural gas pipeline fugitive emissions data at valve sites, meter stations and compressor stations. The technology will improve operations and regulatory reporting activities resulting in improved ability to plan maintenance activities. CASE STUDY: Investing in leading-edge technology TC Energy is pursuing a novel, utility-scale solar-plus-storage electricity generation facility near Aldersyde, Alberta, with support from Emissions Reductions Alberta. The project will use state-of-the-art bifacial solar panels that are double-sided to take advantage of the indirect sunlight from reflective ground cover such as snow-covered surfaces found in Alberta during the winter months. Flow battery storage technology would also allow the solar energy to be stored for up to eight hours for use at times of peak electricity demand. The innovative project will provide direct GHG benefits through the generation of emissions-free renewable power to meet the needs of 3,000 homes. The project will also help prove the technical and commercial viability of these technologies for wider scale adoption. Learn more about our Climate Change and Sustainability commitments . FAQs How is TC Energy addressing/managing the long-term risks and opportunities related to climate change and greenhouse gas emission policies? We have robust climate governance and risk management processes, overseen by TC Energy’s Board of Directors and executive leadership team. Please see the information on climate governance, risks and opportunities in our 2022 ESG Data Sheet . Does TC Energy’s strategic planning include consideration of climate change? Does the company utilize scenario analysis as part of its planning? TC Energy understands that shareholders and other stakeholders want information on how the company is addressing climate change and associated risks. We have outlined specific strategic direction on how the company is addressing long-term risks and opportunities in relation to climate change and the energy transition in our annual ESG Data Sheet and our GHG Emissions Reduction Plan. We recognize that future energy systems will evolve. For many years we have evaluated the resilience of our asset portfolio over a range of potential energy supply and demand outcomes, also known as scenario analysis, as part of our strategic planning process. We believe our existing and future asset portfolio is resilient and well-positioned to embrace the energy transition, tolerate disruptions and adapt to external changes or uncertainties. We monitor the pace and magnitude of energy transition through various signposts and look for material shifts that pose threats or create opportunities; each year evaluating the scenarios that will best inform our strategy. What is TC Energy’s approach to carbon management – specifically regarding methane emissions? As an energy infrastructure company, we recognize our role in the larger energy system, including the ongoing management of our own GHG emissions. We are committed to managing our GHG emissions, reducing our GHG emissions intensity and continuing to integrate climate considerations into our overall business strategy. TC Energy is a proud signatory to the Methane Guiding Principles . These principles focus on priority areas for action towards the reduction of methane emissions across the natural gas value chain. Our GHG Emissions Reduction Plan provides more details on how we are modernizing our systems and assets to reduce fugitive methane emissions, leaks, venting and flaring associated with regular operations and maintenance, and improving overall operational efficiency. We are also looking to decarbonize our own energy consumption by seeking low-carbon energy sources to support our operations. How are you collaborating with industry and policy-makers to address climate change and reduce methane emissions? We collaborate with industry and government partners to enhance the safety, efficiency and reliability of our operations and assets, and are supporting, advancing and embracing the energy transition across our industry. Our memberships and partnerships with industry organizations across North America contribute to federal and global responses to climate change. We engage with government and stakeholder representatives on climate change policy developments, and fund research for GHG emissions reduction opportunities. For example, we are participants in the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Natural Gas STAR program ; we are a member company in the Interstate Natural Gas Association of America Methane Emission Commitment; and we are one of 50 members in the ONE Future Coalition , a group of natural gas companies working together to voluntarily reduce methane emissions across the natural gas supply chain. Do you track and share publicly TC Energy’s greenhouse gas emissions? Our historic GHG emissions data is available in our annual ESG Data Sheet . What is the company’s stance on carbon policy? We recognize interest from governing bodies to reduce GHG emissions through the implementation of various carbon policy and regulatory mechanisms. We support policies that recognize the global nature of climate change and promote the reduction of both GHG intensity and absolute volume in a way that enhances human well-being now and in the future, considering the need for affordable, reliable energy and economic growth. We support the need for sensible and cohesive public policy frameworks by engaging in dialogue with policy-makers and industry peers to help our industry fully participate in the North American discussion on climate change. Further, we contribute to a unified North American response through memberships in industry organization, engagement with government and stakeholder representatives on climate change policy developments, and funding research into GHG emissions reduction opportunities. Latest stories Sorry, there were no results. Mar 8, 2023 Recognizing International Women’s Day 2023 | Let’s #EmbraceEquity Mar 2, 2023 Unlock the power of volunteering Feb 28, 2023 A unique approach to maintenance on our NGTL System Feb 21, 2023 Re-imagining the way we work with Indigenous groups 1 2 3 4 5 … » »» About Governance Strategy People Explore Energy Newsroom Contact Stories Ethics Help Line Our Business Energy Solutions Natural Gas Oil & Liquids Power and Storage Operations maps Vendors Sustainability Safety Communities Indigenous Landowners Environment 2022 Report on Sustainability GHG Emissions Reduction Plan Community giving Build Strong Scholarships Apply for funding Empower Investors Reports and filings ESG Why invest Stock information Dividends Shareholders Events and presentations Notice and access Contact Careers Newsroom Stories Customer Central Subscribe twitter facebook linkedin instagram youtube Privacy Legal notices Emergency numbers Click or Call Before You Dig Safe Digging Legal notices Privacy © 2023 TransCanada PipeLines Limited, an affiliate of TC Energy Corporation Environment: Production     Version: 5.1.0.2584-beta