Creating a more sustainable future | TELUS Skip to content Skip to search Personal Business Health Agriculture & Consumer Goods Social Impact Support Support Support EN ON Communities Connectivity Healthcare Environment Agriculture Social Impact Caring for the environment Leading in sustainability We're helping to reduce our collective carbon footprint by investing in our networks, innovative technologies and sustainable business practices. Let's make our planet healthier. Read our 2021 Sustainability and ESG Report Read our 2021 ESG Data Sheet Embracing sustainability Sustainability is embedded into our core business strategy. The results speak for themselves: 18% reduction in absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions from 2019 65% of electricity requirements procured from renewable or low-emitting sources in 2021 1,200+ metric tonnes of e-waste and 20 metric tonnes of mobile devices recycled in 2021 13% reduction in water consumption intensity per terabyte of data traffic from 2019 18% reduction in absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions from 2019 65% people with disabilities supported through our Tech for Good program 1,200+ metric tonnes of e-waste and 20 metric tonnes of mobile devices recycled in 2021 13% reduction in water consumption intensity per terabyte of data traffic from 2019 Investing in sustainable futures To drive social innovation, we are funding and ultimately empowering businesses globally to help solve some of the biggest challenges our planet faces, today and tomorrow. Seeding innovation As one of the world’s largest corporate impact funds,  the TELUS Pollinator Fund for Good is helping tackle social challenges in health, agriculture, the environment and enabling inclusive communities. Learn how we’re investing in innovators Investing in renewable energy We’re working toward a low carbon future by enabling new solar and wind power facilities, generating Renewable Energy Certificates and adding clean energy to the electricity grid. Read about our climate action initiatives Powering smarter cities Through our Smart Cities solutions we’re leveraging emerging technologies like 5G to transform urban areas into safer, greener cities. See how we’re transforming communities Caring for our planet Through major investments in innovative technologies and sustainable business practices, we are helping protect the planet our children will inherit. We're applying science-based targets to lower greenhouse gas emissions. Together, we are: Circular arrows icon 100% renewable energy Committing to 100% renewable energy by 2025 Diamond icon Carbon neutrality Aiming to have net carbon neutral operations by 2030 or sooner Leaf icon Zero-waste Working towards becoming a zero-waste company by 2030 Read our 2021 Sustainability and ESG Report (PDF) Awards & recognition TELUS continues to rank among the world’s leaders in sustainability and social capitalism. View more recognition Wall Street Journal Top 100 Corporate Knights: 2022 Global 100 & Canada’s Best 50 Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) Ways you can participate Reusing smartphones Our Bring-It-Back™ program refurbishes and resells old customer smartphones, giving them a new home rather than adding to electronic waste. Learn about Bring-It-Back Recycling pre-loved devices Drop off your pre-loved phones and tablets at a TELUS store and we’ll either responsibly recycle them to keep them out of landfills or upcycle them to connect a Canadian in need. Learn about recycling your phone High tech. Lower impact. By choosing an expertly refurbished smartphone, you’re helping save greenhouse gas emissions. Plus, every device is tested, inspected, disinfected and re-packaged to work like new. Shop Certified Pre-owned devices Champions for change Discover how local heroes are using our innovations to drive progress. View related stories Achieving sustainability Learn how our efforts are making a real impact. View policies & reports TELUS Health & Safety Policy To ensure effective management of health and safety risks in the workplace, TELUS has dedicated programs within its occupational health and safety management system that assesses and improves performance in the prevention of workplace incidents and accidents. Procedures include: Risk and hazard assessments to identify potential harm in the workplace Prioritization and integration of action plans with quantified targets to address risks Integration of actions to prepare for and respond to emergency situations Evaluation of progress in reducing and eliminating risks against targets Internal inspections Procedures to investigate work-related injuries, ill health, diseases, and incidents Health and safety awareness training for all team members. Read our health and safety policy Paper and packaging We’re working to ensure the sustainability of natural resources we use and reducing our environmental footprint. Read our Sustainable Packaging Policy Environmental policy Our Environmental Policy and ISO 14001 Environmental Management System underpins all of our environmental sustainability initiatives. Read our Environmental Policy Sustainability Report Archives Learn about our performance on important issues in a way that highlights the relationship between business success and sustainability. View all archived reports Contact the TELUS Sustainability Team We welcome your inquiries about our commitment to sustainability and ongoing efforts to make a difference. Email us Support Support Find a store Find a store Contact us Contact us The TELUS team acknowledges that our work spans many Territories and Treaty areas and we are grateful for the traditional Knowledge Keepers and Elders who are with us today, those who have gone before us and the youth that inspire us. We recognize the land and the benefits it provides all of us, as an act of Reconciliation, as recommended by the Truth and Reconciliation Commission’s (TRC) 94 Calls to Action and gratitude to those whose territory we reside on, work on or are visiting. Learn more about TELUS’ commitments to Reconciliation . Company About Us Careers Investors Media Diversity and Inclusion Legal Privacy / Cookies TELUS & CRTC Wireless Code Policies and Disclosures Service Terms User Terms Help Support Security Accessibility Neighbourhood OTHER TELUS PROPERTIES Social Impact Business Health Agriculture Support Support Find a store Find a store Contact us Contact us Territorial Acknowledgement The TELUS team acknowledges that our work spans many Territories and Treaty areas and we are grateful for the traditional Knowledge Keepers and Elders who are with us today, those who have gone before us and the youth that inspire us. We recognize the land and the benefits it provides all of us, as an act of Reconciliation, as recommended by the Truth and Reconciliation Commission’s (TRC) 94 Calls to Action and gratitude to those whose territory we reside on, work on or are visiting. Learn more about TELUS’ commitments to Reconciliation . COMPANY About Us Careers Investors Media Diversity and Inclusion HELP Support Security Accessibility Neighbourhood LEGAL Privacy / Cookies TELUS & CRTC Wireless Code Policies and Disclosures Service Terms User Terms OTHER TELUS PROPERTIES Social Impact Business Health Agriculture © 2023 TELUS