Climate | Thomson Reuters Foundation News × Our award-winning reporting has moved Context provides news and analysis on three of the world’s most critical issues: climate change, the impact of technology on society, and inclusive economies. BROWSE THE ARCHIVE VISIT CONTEXT This site is archived: Visit Context for
            the latest news and analysis on the three biggest issues affecting people, society and the environment. CHECK OUT OUR NEW SITE About Thomson Reuters Foundation Sign up for our Newsletter | Member Login Home Coronavirus Women LGBT+ Climate Economies Technology Slavery Cities Land More In Focus Videos Opinion In Focus Videos Opinion Search Climate news Rising inflation traps Bangladesh climate migrants Will Iran's climate inaction fuel rising disaster threats? explainer COP27: Why climate-change 'loss and damage' will be a hot topic In Depth Fears of 'subprime' carbon assets stall crypto rainforest mission In Depth Trees, tech and people help Mozambican park reverse nature losses News Package Security risks and climate change 0 1 2 In Depth Fears of 'subprime' carbon assets stall crypto rainforest mission In Depth Trees, tech and people help Mozambican park reverse nature losses Could an indigenous funding boost revive stuttering forest pact? Cost of crypto: Report says US bitcoin as dirty as 6 million cars analysis Will Indonesia's new forest pact with Norway drive more funding? explainer What does the green transition mean for energy jobs? As U.S. bakes, mapping shows Black, Latino areas feel more heat explainer How could positive 'tipping points' accelerate climate action? Climate goals threatened by lack of clean tech collaboration: IEA analysis Why are nature protection funds not reaching indigenous peoples? Iraq's political stalemate pushes climate action to backseat analysis As climate 'tipping points' near, scientists plan for unthinkable Indonesia's sinking villages look to nature to restore mangroves Patagonia founder gives away company to help fight climate crisis explainer Crypto companies and carbon offsets: Here's what you need to know Climate impacts head to 'uncharted territories of destruction': UN Solar bitcoin mine plan divides villagers in El Salvador As California sizzles, Amazon drivers feel the heat over metrics As ether adopts energy-saving 'merge', will bitcoin follow? Indigenous groups seek global pact to protect 80% of Amazon forest explainer What will King Charles's reign mean for climate action? Indian coal hub juggles need for jobs with hope for greener future African leaders aim to put climate finance top of COP27 agenda As seas rise, U.S. coastal landowners urged to let the water in Low-carbon bitcoin? Crypto miners' green power talk angers Texans 'Start my life from zero': Pakistanis face heavy cost of floods Where's the beef? Brazil balances barbecues and forest protection interview Global crises may drive 'giant leap' for climate action Will Pakistan floods spur better climate disaster planning? explainer Obscure energy pact threatens huge state losses for climate action Death and deforestation: Cocaine trade adds to Amazon's woes Pakistan floods deal fresh blow to struggling small businesses Heat or eat? Winter protests loom as energy poverty sweeps Europe Solar power brings Bangladesh work, but land shortage slows growth Flash mobs and YouTubers boost India anti-coal mining protest SOS! Scientists sound climate alarm with exclamation mark analysis Cholera tragedy in Indian village sheds light on power debts Migrants share lessons with U.S. to improve climate resilience Solar power helps Indian women make light work of spinning Can Indonesia's Muslim leaders boost public climate action? explainer As Europe's forests burn, why are wildfires getting worse? Greening the Himalayas: Is there a 'wrong' place to plant trees? Sewage beer: What can we learn from Singapore's water recycling? In Afghanistan, a wrenching choice between drought and migration Show more About our Climate coverage We focus on the human and development impacts of climate change. Newsletter sign up: Opinion Clare Shine University of Cambridge COP27: Here’s how to unlock Africa’s low-carbon future Private investment is needed for Africa to adopt renewable energy. Here’s why that investment makes sense Matthew Clark Nature and Culture International How to protect tropical forests? Let indigenous people lead To turn around deforestation, patient indigenous-led conservation is key Richard Beardsworth & Dhanush ... Truss's cost-of-living solution adds fuel to the climate crisis Britain’s new Prime Minister needs to keep in mind that boosting fossil fuel use now sets the country up for worse crises soon Osprey Orielle Lake Women's Earth and Climate Action Network (WECAN) International Women land defenders need new rights to be implemented The Escazú Agreement sets out to curb escalating violence and give indigenous activists a voice in decision-making - if respected, it will also boost environmental protection In Depth analysis As climate 'tipping points' near, scientists plan for the unthinkable INSIGHT-Low-carbon bitcoin? Crypto miners' green power talk angers Texas locals analysis As 1.5C warming limit nears, interest in sun-dimming tech heats up Portugal fights wildfires with new tactics as heatwaves raise risk Videos & Pictures more videos Earth Focus: For the Love of the Land Can we save trees by putting a price on them? Why cutting methane emissions is key to fighting climate change Heatwaves: Why it's time to take extreme heat seriously Young lives on the line: #climatecrisis South Africa’s battle between coal and climate Editor's Picks As U.S. bakes, mapping shows Black, Latino areas feel more heat explainer How could positive 'tipping points' accelerate climate action? 'Start my life from zero': Poor Pakistanis face heavy cost of floods Will Pakistan floods spur better climate disaster planning? About Thomson Reuters Foundation News news.trust.org Our global editorial team of about 55 journalists and more than 350 freelancers covers the lives of people around the world who struggle to live freely or fairly. Find out more Find out more Newsletter sign up: Terms and Conditions Privacy and Cookies Acceptable Use Policy Contact Us Trust Principles Context Copyright © 2020 Thomson Reuters Foundation. Thomson Reuters Foundation is a charity registered in England and Wales (registration number: 1082139) Join Us Cookie Consent by Free Privacy Policy Generator website -->