Waste Connections reports a decline in GHG emissions despite acquisitions, sets new ESG targets | Waste Dive Skip to main content CONTINUE TO SITE ➞ Don't miss tomorrow's waste industry news Let Waste Dive's free newsletter keep you informed, straight from your inbox. Daily Dive M-F view sample Topics covered: recycling, landfills, collections, organics diversion, waste-to-energy, and much more. Recycling Weekly Every Wednesday Topics covered: recyclables collection, MRF operations, processing, commodity trends, global trade policy and more. By signing up to receive our newsletter, you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . You can unsubscribe at anytime. A valid email address is required. Deep Dive Library Events Topics Menu Search Sign up Search M&A ESG Workforce Collection Recycling Organics Landfill Energy Zero Waste An article from Waste Connections reports a decline in GHG emissions despite acquisitions, sets new ESG targets The company plans investments in RNG facilities, MRFs and electric collection vehicles as well as to cut Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 15%, building on a recent decline of 7%, it says. Published Oct. 31, 2022 Cole Rosengren Lead Editor An electric collection truck prototype for Waste Connections. Increasing the proportion of alternative-fuel and electric fleet vehicles is part of its greenhouse gas emissions reduction strategy. Courtesy of Lion Electric Waste Connections had added new targets to its environmental, social and governance strategy and reported a reduction in emissions despite ongoing growth through acquisitions, according to its 2022 sustainability report. The company set multiple ranges of targets in its 2020 ESG report as part of a $500 million commitment to related capital spending. The latest report also contains new details on environmental justice factors and expanded diversity metrics as well as updated considerations related to recommendations from the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures. New goal: Decrease Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions 15% by 2033 Update: Waste Connections reported a 7% decrease in emissions from 2019 through 2021 The addition of an absolute greenhouse gas emissions reduction target is new for the company. For 2021 , Waste Connections reported Scope 1 emissions of 5.6 million metric tons of CO2 equivalent (down from 6 million in 2019) as well as 50,694 million metric tons in Scope 2 emissions. Like the emissions of its peers, the majority of Waste Connections’ Scope 1 emissions come from landfills. The company notes upcoming investments in two renewable natural gas projects at its landfills. The company’s plans to expand recycling and related services and invest in alternative fuel vehicles are among its other emissions-reduction strategies, as ways to decrease emissions. Waste Connections’ proportion of alternative fuel vehicles declined slightly in 2021, to 11.9%, but it notes continuing work to pursue electric collection vehicles . In addition, the company points to a “net climate benefit ratio” that indicates its operations offset 3.4 metrics tons of carbon for every metric ton generated by managing customers’ waste materials. New goal: Achieve continuous improvement in Scope 1 and 2 emissions intensity Update: It reports an 18% reduction in Scope 1 and 2 emissions intensity since 2019 Emissions intensity, a common figure in ESG reporting, is calculated based on a company’s scale. According to Waste Connections, it generated 919 metric tons of CO2 equivalent per $1 million of revenue in 2021 . Other goal updates Waste Connections reiterated targets it had set for a 15-year time frame, using 2018 as its baseline year. Goal: Increase “resources recovered” by at least 50%. Waste Connections reported recycling 1.84 million tons of material in 2021, with a goal of 2.31 million tons. The company cites ongoing investment in new MRFs and robotics as part of its plan. Goal: Increase biogas recovery by at least 40%. The company recovered 29.2 billion cubic feet of biogas in 2021, with a goal of 36.7 billion cubic feet. Goal: Process at least 50% of landfill leachate on site. This level declined slightly, to 37.1%, in 2021, but the company reports it has “substantially completed construction” of two new facilities. Goal: 25% reduction in safety incident rate. Waste Connections reported 15.15 incidents per 200,000 hours worked in 2021, down slightly from 2020, and it is aiming for a rate of 12.78 or less. The company’s total recordable incident rate increased in 2021. Goal: Continuous improvement in voluntary turnover. The company saw its turnover rate jump to 21.1% in 2021, from 14.6% in 2020 and 17.8% in 2019. Goal: Continuous improvement in servant leadership scores. The company reported a score of 4.24 in 2021 (on a 1-5 scale) based on employee feedback. This score, which relates to the company’s management culture, has risen continually since 2018. post share tweet print email Filed Under: Mergers and Acquisitions, Environmental, Social and Governance, Workforce, Collections & Transfer, Recycling, Landfill, Energy Waste Dive news delivered to your inbox Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts Email: Select Newsletter: Daily Dive M-F Select Newsletter: Recycling Weekly Every Wednesday Select user consent: By signing up to receive our newsletter, you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . You can unsubscribe at anytime. Sign up A valid email address is required. Please select at least one newsletter. Editors' picks Skyhobo via Getty Images Environmental justice is a growing operational factor. How are federal and state agencies defining it? The definition of an environmental justice or disadvantaged area varies among states and between states and the U.S. EPA, with each term having a different range of implications. By Myisha Majumder • Feb. 22, 2023 Katie Pyzyk/Waste Dive LRS’ new $50M Chicago MRF is heavy on automation, with room for expansion The MRF can handle nearly twice the material as the one LRS opened in a Chicago suburb just six years ago. The company “invested on the front end to reduce labor” amid a tight employment market the last few years. By Katie Pyzyk • March 15, 2023 Get the free newsletter Subscribe to Waste Dive for top news, trends & analysis Email: Select Newsletter: Daily Dive M-F Select Newsletter: Recycling Weekly Every Wednesday Select user consent: By signing up to receive our newsletter, you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . You can unsubscribe at anytime. Sign up A valid email address is required. Please select at least one newsletter. Most Popular SWANA to hire new CEO, citing ‘changing vision,’ as Biderman departs Closed Loop’s Circular Services expands investment with funding from major CPGs LRS’ new $50M Chicago MRF is heavy on automation, with room for expansion 6 types of PFAS included in EPA’s long-awaited drinking water regulations Library resources Trendline The Waste Dive Outlook on 2023 Supported by Waste Dive Infographic Environmental Packing That Diverts Plastics From Landfills Custom content for PreZero Webinar - on demand What's Next for Waste and Recycling  in 2022? View all What We're Reading 4029 News Arkansas Supreme Court rules in favor of Fort Smith over recycling fee dispute after material was not processed. Statesman Journal Oregon Legislature debates medical waste burning at Covanta incinerator in Marion County. WVUA Collection workers in Tuscaloosa, Alabama, consider walking off the job. View all Events 28 MAR Webinar
                            
                                
                                    | 2 p.m. ET Requirements for Federal EV Charging Funding Come into Focus Presented by studioID and Enel X Waste Dive news delivered to your inbox Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts Email: Select Newsletter: Daily Dive M-F Select Newsletter: Recycling Weekly Every Wednesday Select user consent: By signing up to receive our newsletter, you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . You can unsubscribe at anytime. Sign up A valid email address is required. Please select at least one newsletter. Company Announcements View all | Post a press release Want to share a company announcement with your peers? Share your announcement ➔ Editors' picks Skyhobo via Getty Images Environmental justice is a growing operational factor. How are federal and state agencies defining it? The definition of an environmental justice or disadvantaged area varies among states and between states and the U.S. EPA, with each term having a different range of implications. By Myisha Majumder • Feb. 22, 2023 Katie Pyzyk/Waste Dive LRS’ new $50M Chicago MRF is heavy on automation, with room for expansion The MRF can handle nearly twice the material as the one LRS opened in a Chicago suburb just six years ago. The company “invested on the front end to reduce labor” amid a tight employment market the last few years. By Katie Pyzyk • March 15, 2023 Latest in Mergers and Acquisitions GreenWaste CEO envisions ‘stronger presence’ for company in California following private equity investment By Cole Rosengren WM acquires large Minnesota composting company as part of Midwest organics recycling growth By Megan Quinn Major solid waste and recycling companies spent nearly $6.3B on acquisitions in 2022 By Cole Rosengren Waste Harmonics CEO sees company at an ‘inflection point’ as it grows with latest acquisition By Cole Rosengren Explore About Editorial Team Contact Us Newsletter Article Reprints Press Releases What We're Reading Reach our audience Advertising Post a press release Related Publications Smart Cities Dive Utility Dive image/svg+xml Industry Dive is an Informa business © 2023 Industry Dive . All rights reserved. | View our other publications | Privacy policy | Terms of use | Take down policy . Cookie Preferences / Do Not Sell Search Home Topics M&A ESG Workforce Collection Recycling Organics Landfill Energy Zero Waste Deep Dive Library Events Get Waste Dive in your inbox The free newsletter covering the top industry headlines Email: Select Newsletter: Daily Dive M-F Select Newsletter: Recycling Weekly Every Wednesday Select user consent: By signing up to receive our newsletter, you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . You can unsubscribe at anytime. Sign up A valid email address is required. Please select at least one newsletter.