Wheaton Precious Metals Corp. - Sustainability Skip to main content Company Company Profile Management & Directors Corporate Governance Streams Salobo Peñasquito Antamina Constancia Stillwater San Dimas Sudbury Zinkgruvan Yauliyacu Cozamin Neves-Corvo Pascua-Lama Copper World Voisey's Bay Other Streams Investors Financials Key Documents Interactive Analyst Center Reserves & Resources Events & Webcasts Presentations Analyst Coverage Stock Information Shares & Warrants Dividends Annual General Meeting Regulatory Filings Metals & Markets Blog LSE Listing Sustainability Approach ESG Policies & Guidelines Community Investment Partner Community Investment Program Local Community Investment Program Our Investment Decisions ESG Due Diligence Process Third-Party Mine Operators Tailings Management People Health & Safety Diversity, Inclusion and Discrimination Environment Membership and Commitments Sustainability Reports & Disclosure News Press Releases Contact Request Info Email Alerts Home » Sustainability Printer Version Our Approach to Sustainability At Wheaton, we have a strong belief and conviction in being Agents of Change and drivers of responsible mining. When providing funding solutions, we believe it is our duty to ensure that we partner with mine operators that share our values and belief in good environmental stewardship and social responsibility. We also believe in leading by example. Over the years, we have demonstrated a strong and sustained commitment to responsible business. Our commitments and approach are summarized through our comprehensive ESG policies and ESG strategy. Sustainability in numbers 30 % Female Board Members 4.4 % 5-year average turnover rate 35.6% Scope 3 financed emissions covered by Science-Based emissions targets US$ 32.5 M contributed to community investment programmes since 2009 100 % of new streaming agreements screened for ESG issues and risks 44 % Female employees Our Environment Wheaton Precious Metals is committed to the protection of the environment for present and future generations. As a company that operates within the mining industry, but neither owns nor operates any mines, our goal is to minimize our direct and indirect impacts on the environment, through the way in which we conduct our own business and manage our offices, and in the ways that we manage our relationships with our mining partners. In 2022, Wheaton announced its commitment to net zero carbon emissions by 2050. Our Approach to Environment Our People Wheaton’s business is operated by fewer than 45 employees across two offices. Wheaton is committed to retaining a highly-skilled, diverse, and engaged workforce and developing and investing in its employees. Our Approach to People Our Communities Social responsibility is, and always has been, an important aspect of Wheaton’s business. Wherever Wheaton, or its Mining Partners, work it is committed to helping build healthy, vibrant communities. Through its Community Investment Program, Wheaton dedicates a portion of net income to charitable organizations and initiatives that help improve and strengthen communities both locally and internationally. Our Approach to Community Our Investment and Streaming Decisions Wheaton generates revenue by entering into streaming agreements with third party independent mining companies (“Third-Party Operators”) with operating mines as well as exploration and development-stage mining projects. Although Wheaton is not involved in nor has control over the operational decisions of Mining Partners, the Company can still be indirectly exposed to ESG and other risks arising from these mine projects. For this reason, Wheaton investigates and reviews ESG risks and issues prior to entering into a streaming agreement, and continuously monitors ESG issues once a streaming agreement is in place. Wheaton also aims to positively influence the mining industry and is committed to support its Mining Partners to improve their ESG performance. Our Approach to Investment and Streaming Decisions Recognition Sustainability Reports ESG News Feed See All Navigation Company Streams Investors Responsibility News Contact Legal Site Map Archive Archive Connect With Us © Wheaton Precious Metals Corp Notice on third party links You are now leaving the Wheaton Precious Metals' website to go to an external third-party website. By selecting this link, you will be transferred to a website that is not affiliated with, or under the ownership or control of the Wheaton Precious Metals' site. Proceed at your own risk. We are not responsible or liable for the operation, content or policies of the website to which you are linking, and do not endorse, control, supervise or review its policies, assumptions, content or forward-looking statements. You should address any concerns or questions you may have regarding that website to the site Administrator or Webmaster of that website. If you are visiting a social media website, please refer to our Social Media Engagement Guidelines. Click here to proceed to third party website Go Back ACCEPT We use cookies to enhance your experience. By continuing to visit this site, you agree to our use of cookies. Learn More Powered By Q4 Inc. 5.90.0.6 (opens in new window)